                                          Parallel Bayesian Optimization of Multiple Noisy
                                         Objectives with Expected Hypervolume Improvement


                                                     Samuel Daulton                      Maximilian Balandat              Eytan Bakshy
                                               Facebook, University of Oxford                 Facebook                      Facebook
                                                    sdaulton@fb.com                       balandat@fb.com                ebakshy@fb.com
arXiv:2105.08195v2 [cs.LG] 26 Oct 2021




                                                                                        Abstract
                                                  Optimizing multiple competing black-box objectives is a challenging problem in
                                                  many fields, including science, engineering, and machine learning. Multi-objective
                                                  Bayesian optimization (MOBO) is a sample-efficient approach for identifying
                                                  the optimal trade-offs between the objectives. However, many existing methods
                                                  perform poorly when the observations are corrupted by noise. We propose a novel
                                                  acquisition function, NEHVI, that overcomes this important practical limitation by
                                                  applying a Bayesian treatment to the popular expected hypervolume improvement
                                                  (EHVI) criterion and integrating over this uncertainty in the Pareto frontier. We
                                                  argue that, even in the noiseless setting, generating multiple candidates in parallel
                                                  is an incarnation of EHVI with uncertainty in the Pareto frontier and therefore
                                                  can be addressed using the same underlying technique. Through this lens, we
                                                  derive a natural parallel variant, qNEHVI, that reduces computational complexity
                                                  of parallel EHVI from exponential to polynomial with respect to the batch size.
                                                  qNEHVI is one-step Bayes-optimal for hypervolume maximization in both noisy
                                                  and noiseless environments, and we show that it can be optimized effectively
                                                  with gradient-based methods via sample average approximation. Empirically, we
                                                  demonstrate not only that qNEHVI is substantially more robust to observation
                                                  noise than existing MOBO approaches, but also that it achieves state-of-the-art
                                                  optimization performance and competitive wall-times in large-batch environments.


                                         1   Introduction
                                         Black-box optimization problems that involve multiple competing noisy objectives are ubiquitous
                                         in science and engineering. For example, a real-time communications service may be interested in
                                         tuning the parameters of a control policy to adapt video quality in real time in order to maximize
                                         video quality and minimize latency [10, 17]. In robotics, scientists may seek to design hardware
                                         components that maximize locomotive speed and minimize energy expended [8, 38]. In agriculture,
                                         development agencies may seek to balance crop yield and environmental impact [28]. For such
                                         multi-objective optimization (MOO) problems, there typically is no single solution that is best with
                                         respect to all objectives. Rather, the goal is to identify the Pareto frontier: a set of optimal trade-offs
                                         such that improving one objective means deteriorating another. In many cases, the objectives are
                                         expensive to evaluate. For instance, randomized trials used in agriculture and the internet industry
                                         may take weeks or months to conduct and incur opportunity costs, and manufacturing and testing
                                         hardware is both costly and time-consuming. Therefore, it is imperative to be able to identify good
                                         trade-offs with as few objective evaluations as possible.
                                         Bayesian optimization (BO), a method for efficient global black-box optimization, is often used to
                                         tackle such problems. BO employs a probabilistic surrogate model in conjunction with an acquisition
                                         function to navigate the trade-off between exploration (evaluating designs with high uncertainty)
                                         and exploitation (evaluating designs that are believed to be optimal). Although a significant number
                                         of works have explored multi-objective Bayesian optimization (MOBO), most available methods

                                         35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021)
[3, 39, 51, 60] do not take into account the fact that, in practice, observations are often subject to
noise. For example, results of an A/B test are highly variable due to heterogeneity in the underlying
user population and other factors. Agricultural trials are affected by the stochastic nature of plant
growth and environmental factors such as soil composition or wind currents. In robotics, devices are
subject to manufacturing tolerances, and observations of quantities such as locomotive speed and
efficiency may be corrupted by measurement error from noisy sensors and environmental factors
such as temperature or surface friction. While previous work has shown that a principled treatment of
noisy observations can significantly improve optimization performance in the single-objective case
[24, 37], this issue is understudied in the multi-objective setting. Furthermore, many applications in
which evaluations take a long time require evaluating large batches of candidates in parallel in order
to achieve reasonable throughput. For example, when firms optimize systems via A/B tests, it may
take several weeks to test any particular configuration. Because of this, large batches of candidate
policies are tested simultaneously [36]. In biochemistry and materials design, dozens of tests can
be conducted parallel on a single microplate [63]. Even in sophisticated high throughput chemistry
settings, these batches may take several hours or days to set up and evaluate [42]. Most existing
MOBO methods, however, are either designed for purely sequential optimization [3, 51] or do not
scale well to large batch sizes [11].
Contributions: In this work, we propose a novel MOBO algorithm, based on expected hypervolume
improvement (EHVI), that scales to highly parallel evaluations of noisy objectives. Our approach is
made possible by a general-purpose, differentiable, cached box decomposition (CBD) implementation
that dramatically speeds up critical computations needed to account for uncertainty introduced by
noisy observations and generate new candidate points for highly parallel batch or asynchronous
evaluation. In particular, our CBD-based approach solves the fundamental problem of scaling parallel
EHVI-based methods to large batch sizes, reducing time and space complexity from exponential to
polynomial. Our proposed algorithm, noisy expected hypervolume improvement (NEHVI), is the one-
step Bayes-optimal policy for hypervolume improvement and provides state-of-the-art performance
across a variety of benchmarks. To our knowledge, our work provides the most extensive evaluation
of noisy parallel MOBO to date. A high-quality implementation of qNEHVI, as well as many of the
baselines considered here, will be made available as open-source software upon publication.


2   Preliminaries

Our goal is to find the set of optimal designs x over a bounded set X ⊂ Rd that maximize one or
more objectives f (x) ∈ RM , with no known analytical expression nor gradient information of f .
Multi-Objective Optimization(MOO) aims to identify        the set of Pareto optimal objective trade-
offs. We say a solution f (x) = f (1) (x), ..., f (M ) (x) dominates another solution f (x)  f (x0 ) if
f (m) (x) ≥ f (m) (x0 ) for m = 1, ..., M and ∃ m ∈ {1, ..., M } s.t. f (m) (x) > f (m) (x0 ). We define
the Pareto frontier as P ∗ = {f (x) : x ∈ X , @ x0 ∈ X s.t. f (x0 )  f (x)}, and denote the set of
Pareto optimal designs as X ∗ = {x : f (x) ∈ P ∗ }. Since the Pareto frontier (PF) is often an infinite
set of points, MOO algorithms usually aim to identify a finite approximate PF P. A natural measure
of the quality of a PF is the hypervolume of the region of objective space that is dominated by the PF
and bounded from below by a reference point. Provided with the approximate PF, the decision-maker
can select a particular Pareto optimal trade-off according to their preferences.
Bayesian Optimization (BO) is a sample-efficient optimization method that leverages a probabilistic
surrogate model to make principled decisions to balance exploration and exploitation [19, 50].
Typically, the surrogate is a Gaussian Process (GP), a flexible, non-parametric model known for its
well-calibrated predictive uncertainty [47]. To decide which points to evaluate next, BO employs
an acquisition function α(·) that specifies the value of evaluating a set of new points x based on
the surrogate’s predictive distribution at . While evaluating the true black-box function f is time-
consuming or costly, evaluating the surrogate is cheap and relatively fast; therefore, numerical
optimization can be used to find the maximizer of the acquisition function x∗ = arg maxx∈X α(x)
to evaluate next on the black-box function. BO sequentially selects new points to evaluate and updates
the model to incorporate the new observations.
Evolutionary algorithms (EAs) such as NSGA-II [12] are a popular choice for solving MOO problems
(see Zitzler et al. [67] for a review of various other approaches). However, EAs generally suffer from
high sample complexity, rendering them infeasible for optimizing expensive-to-evaluate black-box


                                                   2
functions. Multi-objective Bayesian optimization (MOBO), which combines a Bayesian surrogate
with an acquisition function designed for MOO, provides a much more sample-efficient alternative.

3       Related Work
Methods based on hypervolume improvement (HVI) seek to expand the volume of the objective space
dominated by the Pareto frontier. Expected hypervolume improvement (EHVI) [16] is a natural
extension of the popular expected improvement (EI) [29] acquisition function to the MOO setting.
Recent work has led to efficient computational paradigms using box decomposition algorithms [59]
and practical enhancements such as support for parallel candidate generation and gradient-based
acquisition optimization [11, 58]. However, EHVI still suffers from some limitations, including (i)
the assumption that observations are noise-free, and (ii) the exponential scaling of its batch variant,
qEHVI, in the batch size q, which precludes large-batch optimization. DGEMO [39] is a recent
method for parallel MOBO that greedily maximizes HVI while balancing the diversity of the design
points being sampled. Although DGEMO scales well to large batch sizes, it does not account for
noisy observations. TSEMO [5] is a Thompson sampling (TS) heuristic that can acquire batches of
points by optimizing a random fourier feature (RFF) [46] approximation of a GP surrogate using
NSGA-II and selecting a subset of points from the EA’s population to sequentially greedily maximize
HVI. This heuristic approach for maximizing HVI currently has no theoretical guarantees and relies
on zeroth-order optimization methods, which tend to be slower and exhibit worse optimization
performance than gradient-based approaches.
Entropy-based methods such as PESMO [25], MESMO [3], and PFES [51] are an alternative to
EHVI. Of these three methods, PESMO is the only one that accounts for observation noise. However,
PESMO involves intractable entropy computations and therefore relies on complex approximations,
as well as challenging and time-consuming numerical optimization procedures [25]. Garrido-Merchán
& Hernández-Lobato [21] recently proposed an extension to PESMO that supports parallel candidate
generation. However, the authors of this work provide limited evaluation and have not provided code
to reproduce their results.1
MOO can also be cast into a single-objective problem by applying a random scalarization of the
objectives. ParEGO maximizes the expected improvement using random augmented Chebyshev
scalarizations [32]. MOEA/D-EGO [64] extends ParEGO to the batch setting using multiple random
scalarizations and the genetic algorithm MOEA/D [65] to optimize these scalarizations in parallel.
Recently, qParEGO, another batch variant of ParEGO was proposed that uses compositional Monte
Carlo objectives and sequential greedy candidate selection [11]. Additionally, the authors proposed
a noisy variant, qNParEGO, but the empirical evaluation of that variant was limited. TS-TCH [45]
combines random Chebyshev scalarizations with Thompson sampling [54], which is naturally robust
to noise when the objective is scalarized. Golovin & Zhang [23] propose to use a hypervolume
scalarization with the property that the expected value of the scalarization over a specific distribution
of weights is equivalent to the hypervolume indicator. The authors propose a upper confidence bound
algorithm using randomly sampled weights, but provide a very limited empirical evaluation.
Many prior attempts by the simulation community to handle MOO with noisy observations found
that accounting for the noise did not improve optimization performance: Horn et al. [26] suggest
that the best approach is to ignore noise, and Koch et al. [33] concluded that further research was
needed to determine if modeling techniques such as re-interpolation could improve BO performance
with noisy observations. In contrast, we find that accounting for noise does substantially improve
performance in noisy settings.
Lastly, previous works have considered methods for quantifying and monitoring uncertainty in the
Pareto frontiers during the optimization [4, 7]. In contrast, we provide a solution to performing
MOBO in noisy settings, rather than purely reasoning about the uncertainty in the Pareto frontier.


4       Background on Expected Hypervolume Improvement

In this section, we review hypervolume, hypervolume improvement, and expected hypervolume
improvement as well as efficient methods for computing these metrics using box decompositions.
    1
        We contacted the authors twice asking for code to reproduce their results, but they graciously declined.


                                                          3
Definition 1. The hypervolume indicator (HV) of a finite approximate Pareto frontier P is the
M -dimensional Lebesgue measure λM of theSspace dominated
                                                           by P and bounded from below by a
reference point. r ∈ RM : HV(P|r) = λM     v∈P [r, v] , where [r, v] denotes the hyper-rectangle
bounded by vertices r and v.

As in previous work, we assume that the reference point r is known and specified by the decision
maker [58].
Definition 2. The hypervolume improvement (HVI) of a set of points P 0 w.r.t. an existing approximate
Pareto frontier P and reference point r is defined as2 HVI(P 0 |P, r) = HV(P ∪ P 0 |r) − HV(P|r).
Computing HV requires calculating the volume of a typically non-rectangular polytope and is known
to have time complexity that is super-polynomial in the number of objectives [59]. An efficient
approach for computing HV is to (i) decompose the region that is dominated by the Pareto frontier
P and bounded from below by the reference point r into disjoint axis-aligned hyperrectangles
[34], (ii) compute the volume of each hyperrectangle in the decomposition, and (iii) sum over all
hyperrectangles. So-called box decomposition algorithms have also been applied to partition the
region that is not dominated by the Pareto frontier P, which can be used to compute the HVI from a
set of new points [15, 59]. See Appendix B for further details.
Expected Hypervolume Improvement: Since function values at unobserved points are unknown in
black-box optimization, so is the HVI of an out-of-sample point. However, in BO the probabilistic
surrogate model provides a posterior distribution p(f (x)|D) over the function values for each x,
which can be used to compute the expected
                                           hypervolume improvement (EHVI) acquisition function:
αEHVI (x|P) = E HVI(f (x)|P) . Although αEHVI can be expressed analytically when (i) the
objectives are assumed to be conditionally independent given x and (ii) the candidates are generated
and evaluated sequentially [58], Monte Carlo (MC) integration is commonly used since it does not
require either assumption [16]. The more general parallel variant using MC integration is given by
                                                                     N
                                                                 1 X
                    αqEHVI (Xcand |P) ≈ α̂qEHVI (Xcand |P) =           HVI(f˜t (Xcand )|P),          (1)
                                                                 N t=1

where f˜t ∼ p(f |D) for t = 1, ..., N and Xcand = {xi }qi=1 [11]. The same box decomposition
algorithms used to compute HVI can be used to compute EHVI (either analytic or via MC) using
piece-wise integration. EHVI computation is agnostic to the choice of box decomposition algorithm
(and can also use approximate methods [9]). Similar to EI in the single-objective case, EHVI is
a one-step Bayes-optimal algorithm for maximizing hypervolume in the MOO setting under the
following assumptions: (i) only a single design will be generated and evaluated, (ii) the observations
are noise-free, (iii) the final approximate Pareto frontier (and final design that will be deployed) will
be drawn from the set of observed points [19].

5       Expected Hypervolume Improvement with Noisy Observations
We consider the case that frequently arises in practice where we only receive noisy observations
yi = f (xi ) + i , i ∼ N (0, Σi ), where Σi is the noise covariance. In this setting, EHVI is no
longer (one-step) Bayes-optimal. This is because we can no longer compute the true Pareto frontier
Pn = {f (x) | x ∈ Xn , @ x0 ∈ Xn s.t. f (x0 )  f (x)} over the previously evaluated points Xn =
{xi }ni=1 . Simply using the observed Pareto frontier, Yn = {y | y ∈ Yn , @ y 0 ∈ Yn s.t. y 0  y, y}
where Yn = {yi }ni=1 , can have strong detrimental effects on optimization performance. This is
illustrated in Figure 1, which shows how EHVI is misled by noisy observations that appear to be
Pareto optimal. EHVI proceeds to spend its evaluation budget trying to optimize noise, resulting in a
clumped Pareto frontier that lacks diversity. Although the posterior mean could serve as a "plug-in"
estimate of the true function values at the observed points and provide some regularization [61], we
find that this heuristic also leads to clustered Pareto frontiers (EHVI-PM in Fig. 1). Similar patterns
emerge with DGEMO (which does not account for noise), and other baselines that utilize the posterior
mean rather than the observed values when computing hypervolume improvement (see Appendix H).
To our knowledge, all previous work on EHVI assumes that observations are noiseless [16, 58] or
imputes the unknown true function values with the posterior mean.

    2
        For brevity we omit the reference point r when referring to HVI.


                                                        4
                -1
                                                    Figure 1: An illustration of the effect of noisy observations on
                -2                                  the true noiseless Pareto frontiers identified by NEHVI (our pro-
                                                    posed algorithm), EHVI, and EHVI-PM, which uses the modeled
  Objective 2
                -3
                                                    posterior mean as point estimate of the true in-sample function
                -4             NEHVI                values. All algorithms are tested on a BraninCurrin synthetic prob-
                               EHVI
                -5             EHVI-PM
                                                    lem, where observations are corrupted with zero-mean, additive
                               Ref. Point           Gaussian noise with a standard deviation of 5% of the range of
                               True PF
                -6                                  respective objective. All methods use sequential (q = 1) optimiza-
                         -15    -10        -5   0   tion. See Appendix G for details.
                               Objective 1

5.1                  A Bayes-optimal algorithm for hypervolume maximization in noisy environments

In contrast with EHVI(-PM), we instead approach the problem of hypervolume maximization under
noisy observations from a Bayesian perspective and derive a novel one-step Bayes-optimal expected
hypervolume improvement criterion that iterates the expectation over the posterior distribution
p(f (Xn )|Dn ) of the function values at the previously evaluated points Xn given noisy observa-
tions Dn = {xi , yi , (Σi )}ni=1 . Our acquisition function, noisy expected hypervolume improvement
(NEHVI), is defined as
                                              Z
                               αNEHVI (x) = αEHVI (x|Pn )p(f |Dn )df                            (2)

where Pn denotes the Pareto frontier over f (Xn ).
By integrating over the uncertainty in the function values at the observed points, NEHVI retains
one-step Bayes-optimality in noisy environments (in noiseless environments, NEHVI is equivalent to
EHVI). Empirically, Figure 1 shows that NEHVI is robust to noise and identifies a well-distributed
Pareto frontier with no signs of clumping, even under very noisy observations.3
The integral in (2) is analytically intractable, but can easily be approximated using MC integration.
Let f˜t ∼ p(f |Dn ) for t = 1, ...N be samples from the posterior, and let Pt = {f˜t (x) | x ∈
Xn , f˜t (x)  f˜t (x0 ) ∀ x0 ∈ Xn } be the Pareto frontier over the previously evaluated points under
the sampled function f˜t . Then, αNEHVI (x) ≈ N1 t=1 αEHVI (x|Pt ). Using MC integration, we
                                                      PN
can compute the inner expectation in αEHVI simultaneously using samples from the joint posterior
f˜t (Xn , x) ∼ p(f (Xn , x)|Dn ) over x and Xn :
                                                                   N
                                                                1 X
                                                α̂NEHVI (x) =         HVI(f˜t (x)|Pt ).                                 (3)
                                                                N t=1
See Appendix B for details on computing (3) using box decompositions. Note that this “full-MC”
variant of NEHVI does not require objectives to be modeled independently, and supports multi-task
covariance functions across correlated objectives.
5.2                  Parallel Noisy Expected Hypervolume Improvement
Generating and evaluating batches of candidates is imperative to achieving adequate throughput in
many real-world scenarios. qNEHVI can naturally be extended to the parallel (asynchronous or
batch) setting by evaluating HVI with respect to a batch of q points Xcand = {xi }qi=1
                                                                             N
                                                                           1 X
                   Z
αqNEHVI (Xcand ) = αqEHVI (Xcand |Pn )p(f |Dn )df ≈ α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =         HVI(f˜t (Xcand )|Pt )
                                                                          N t=1
                                                                                                 (4)
Since optimizing q candidates jointly is a difficult numerical optimization problem over a qd-
dimensional domain, we use a sequential greedy approximation in the parallel setting and solve a
sequence of q simpler optimization problems with d dimensions, which been shown empirically
to improve optimization performance [57]. While selecting candidates according to a “sequential
greedy” policy does not guarantee that the selected batch of candidates is a maximizer of the αqNEHVI ,
the submodularity of αqNEHVI allows us to bound the regret of this approximation to be no more than
1 ∗                 ∗
e αqNEHVI , where αqNEHVI = maxXcand ∈X αqNEHVI (Xcand ) (see Appendix F).
                3
                    This noise level is 5x greater than the ones considered by previous works that evaluate noisy MOBO [25].


                                                                    5
6         Efficient Evaluation with Cached Box Decompositions
Although α̂NEHVI (x) in (3) has a concise mathematical form, computing it requires determining the
Pareto frontier Pt under each sample f˜t for t = 1, ..., N and then partitioning the region that is not
dominated by Pt into disjoint hyperrectangles {Skt }K     t
                                                        kt =1 . Optimizing the unbiased MC estimator
of αNEHVI would require re-sampling {f˜t }N t=1 at each evaluation of αNEHVI . However, computing
the Pareto frontier and performing a box decomposition under each of the N samples during every
evaluation of αNEHVI in the inner optimization loop (x∗ = arg maxx αNEHVI (x|Dn )) would be
prohibitively expensive. This is because box decomposition algorithms have super-polynomial time
complexity in the number of objectives [59]. We instead propose an efficient alternative computational
technique for repeated evaluations of EHVI with uncertain Pareto frontiers.
Cached Box Decompositions: For repeated evaluations of the integral in (2), we use a set of fixed
samples {f˜t (Xn )}N
                   t=1 , which allows us to compute the Pareto frontiers and box decompositions once,
and cache them for the entirety of the acquisition function optimization, thereby making those two
computationally intensive operations a one-time cost per BO iteration.4 We refer to this approach as
using cached box decompositions (CBD). The method of optimizing over fixed random samples is
known as sample average approximation (SAA) [2].
Conditional Posterior Sampling: Under the CBD formulation, computing α̂NEHVI (x) with joint
samples from f˜t (Xn , x) ∼ p(f (Xn , x)|Dn ) requires sampling from the conditional distributions

                              f˜t (x) ∼ p f (x)|f (Xn ) = f˜t (Xn ), Dn ,
                                                                       
                                                                                                       (5)

where t = 1, ..., N and {f˜t (Xn )}N
                                   t=1 are the realized samples at the previously evaluated points.
For multivariate Gaussian posteriors (as is the case with GP surrogates), we can sample from
p(f (Xn )|Dn ) via the reparameterization trick [30] by evaluating f˜t (x) = µn + LTn ζn,t , where
ζn,t ∼ N (0, InM ), µn ∈ RnM is the posterior mean, and Ln ∈ RnM ×nM is a lower triangular root
decomposition of the posterior covariance matrix, typically a Cholesky decomposition. Given Ln , we
can obtain a root decomposition L0n of the covariance matrix of the joint posterior p(f (Xn , x)|Dn )
by performing efficient low-rank updates [44]. Given L0n and the posterior mean of p(f (Xn , x)|Dn ),
we can sample from (5) via the reparameterization trick by augmenting the existing base samples
ζn,t with M new base samples for the new point.

6.1       Efficient Sequential Greedy Batch Selection using CBD
The CBD technique addresses the general problem of inefficient repeated evaluations of EHVI with
uncertain Pareto frontiers. In this section, we show that sequential greedy batch selection (with both
qEHVI and qNEHVI) is an incarnation of EHVI with uncertain Pareto frontiers.
The original formulation of parallel EHVI in Daulton et al. [11] uses the inclusion-exclusion principle
(IEP), which involves computing the volume jointly dominated by each of the 2q − 1 nonempty
subsets of points in Xcand . However, using large batch sizes is not computationally feasible under
this formulation because time and space complexity are exponential in q and multiplicative in the
number of hyperrectangles in the box decomposition [11] (see Appendix D for a complexity analysis).
Although qEHVI is optimized using sequential greedy batch selection, the IEP is used over all
candidates x1 , ..., xi when selecting candidate i. Although the IEP could similarly be used to
compute qNEHVI, we instead leverage CBD, which yields a sequential greedy approximation of the
joint (noisy) EHVI that is mathematically equivalent to the IEP formulation, but significantly reduces
computational overhead. That is, the IEP and CBD approaches produce exactly the same acquisition
value for a given set of points Xcand , but the IEP and the CBD approaches have exponential and
polynomial time complexities in q, respectively.
When selecting xi for i ∈ {2, . . . , q}, all xj for which j < i have already been selected and are
therefore held constant. Thus, we can decompose qNEHVI into the qNEHVI from the previously
selected candidates x1 , . . . , xi−1 and NEHVI from xi given the previously selected candidates

      4
    For greater efficiency, we may also prune Xn to remove points that are dominated with high probability,
which we estimate via MC.


                                                    6
 Acquisition Optimization Time (s)
                                                                  CBD (CPU)
                                                                               Figure 2: Acquisition optimization wall time under a sequential
                                     300                          CBD (GPU)    greedy approximation using L-BFGS-B. CBD enables scaling to
                                                                  IEP (CPU)    much larger batch sizes q than using the IEP and avoids running
                                                                  IEP (GPU)
                                     200
                                                                  OOM
                                                                               out-of-memory (OOM) on a GPU. Independent GPs are used
                                                                               for each outcome. The Pareto frontier of of the 2-objective, 6-
                                     100                                       dimensional DTLZ2 problem [13] is initialized with 20 points.
                                                                               Wall times were measured on a Tesla V100 SXM2 GPU (16GB
                                      0
                                                                               RAM) and a 2x Intel Xeon 6138 CPU @ 2GHz (251GB RAM).
                                           0   20   40       60     80   100
                                                         q                     See Appendix H.2 for results with more objectives.


                               N                                 N
                           1 X                              1 X
α̂qNEHVI ({xj }ij=1 ) =           HVI {f˜t (xj )}j=1
                                                 i−1
                                                                    HVI f˜t (xi ) | Pt ∪ {f˜t (xj )}i−1
                                                                                                           
                                                     } | Pt +                                        j=1 }
                          N t=1                               N t=1
                                                                                                        (6)
Note that the first term on the right hand side is constant, since {xj }i−1              ˜         i−1
                                                                            j=1 and {ft (xj )}j=1 are
fixed for all t = 1, ..., N . The second term is α̂NEHVI (xi ), where the NEHVI is taken with
respect to the Pareto frontier across f (Xn , x1 , ..., xi−1 ) and computed using the fixed samples
{f˜t (Xn , x1 , ...xi−1 )}N
                          t=1 . To compute the second term when selecting candidate xi , the N Pareto
frontiers and CBDs are updated to include {f˜t (Xn , x1 , ...xi−1 )}Nt=1 . As in the sequential q = 1
setting, the box decompositions are only computed and cached while selecting each candidate point.
See Appendix C.2 for a derivation of (6). Although we have focused on qNEHVI in the above, the
CBD formulation for qEHVI is obtained by simply replacing Pt with the Pareto frontier over the
observed values Yn .
Despite computing N box decompositions when selecting each candidate xi for i = 2, ..., q, the CBD
approach reduces the time and space complexity from exponential (under the IEP) to polynomial
in q (see Appendix D for details on time and space complexity). Figure 2 shows the total acquisition
optimization time (including box decompositions) for various batch sizes and demonstrates that using
CBD allows to scale to batch sizes that are completely infeasible when using IEP.

7                                     Optimizing NEHVI
Differentiability: Importantly, α̂NEHVI (x) is differentiable w.r.t. x. Although determining the
Pareto frontier and computing the box decompositions are non-differentiable operations, these
operations do not involve x, even when re-sampling from the joint posterior p(f (Xn , x)|Dn ). Exact
sample-path gradients of ∇x α̂NEHVI (x) can easily be computed using auto-differentiation in modern
computational frameworks. This enables efficient gradient-based optimization of qNEHVI.5
SAA Convergence Results: In addition to approximating the outer expectation over f (Xn ) with
fixed posterior samples, we can similarly fix the base samples used for the new candidate point x.
This approach yields a deterministic acquisition function, which enables using (quasi-) higher-order
optimization methods to obtain fast convergence rates for acquisition optimization [2]. Importantly,
we prove that the theoretical convergence guarantees on acquisition optimization under the SAA
approach proposed by Balandat et al. [2] also hold for NEHVI.
Theorem 1. Suppose X is compact and f has a multi-output GP prior with continuously differen-
tiable mean and covariance functions. Let Xn = {xi }ni=1 denote the previously evaluated points
and {ζ}N  t=1 be base samples ζ ∼ N (0, I(n+1)M ). Let α̂NEHVI denote the deterministic acquisi-
                                                                    ∗
tion function computed using {ζ}N              N
                                      t=1 as α̂NEHVI and define S := arg maxx∈X αNEHVI (x) to be
                                                             ∗
the set of maximizers of αNEHVI (x) over X . Suppose x̂N ∈ arg maxx∈X α̂N           NEHVI (x). Then (1)
             ∗                 ∗                                  ∗     ∗
α̂N
  NEHVI  ( x̂N ) → α NEHVI  (x N ) almost surely, and (2) dist(x̂ N , S   ) →  0, where dist(x̂∗N , S ∗ ) :=
               ∗                                           ∗                  ∗
inf x∈S ∗ ||x̂N − x|| is the Euclidean distance between x̂N and the set S .

Theorem 1 also holds in the parallel setting, so qNEHVI enjoys the same convergence guarantees as
NEHVI on acquisition optimization under the SAA. See Appendix E for further details and proof.
    5
      One can also show that the gradient of the full MC estimator α̂qNEHVI is an unbiased estimator of the
gradient of the true joint noisy expected hypervolume improvement αqNEHVI . However, this result is not
necessary for our SAA approach.


                                                                                          7
8   Approximation of qNEHVI using Approximate GP Sample Paths
Although CBD yields polynomial complexity of qNEHVI with respect to q (rather than exponential
complexity with the IEP), it still requires computing N box decompositions and repeatedly evaluating
the joint posterior over f (Xn , {xj }i−1
                                       j=1 ) for selecting each candidate xi for i = 1, ..., q. A cheaper
alternative is to approximate the integral in (4) using a single approximate GP sample path f̃i using
RFFs when optimizing candidate xi . A single-sample approximation of qNEHVI, which we refer
to as qNEHVI-1, can be computed by using f̃i as the sampled GP in (6). Since the RFF is a
deterministic model, it is much less computationally expensive to evaluate than the GP posterior on
out-of-sample points, and exact gradients of qNEHVI-1 with respect to current candidate xi can be
computed and used for efficient multi-start optimization of qNEHVI-1 using second-order gradient
methods. qNEHVI-1 requires CBD for efficient sequential greedy batch selection and gradient-based
optimization, but does not use a sample average approximation for optimizing a new candidate xi ;
instead, it uses an approximate sample path. See Rahimi & Recht [46] for details on RFFs.
qNEHVI-1 is related to TSEMO in that both use sequential greedy batch selection using HVI based
on RFF samples. However, TSEMO does not directly maximize HVI when selecting candidate xi ,
where i = 1, ..., q; rather, it relies on a heuristic approach of running NSGA-II on an RFF sample
of each objective to create a discrete population of candidates and then selecting the point from the
discrete population that maximizes HVI under the RFF sample. In contrast, qNEHVI-1 directly
optimizes HVI under the RFF using exact sample-path gradients, which leads to improved optimiza-
tion performance (see Appendix H). Furthermore, we find that qNEHVI-1 is significantly faster
than TSEMO, because rather than using NSGA-II it uses second order gradient methods to optimize
HVI (see Appendix H). Gradient-based optimization is only possible because CBD enables scalable,
differentiable HVI computation. While the primary goal of this work is to develop a principled,
scalable method for parallel EHVI in noisy environments, we include empirical comparisons with
qNEHVI-1 throughout the appendix to demonstrate the generalizablility of the CBD approach
and practical performance of the qNEHVI-1 approximation. qNEHVI-1 achieves the fastest batch
selection timesof any method tested on a GPU on every problem; in many cases, this is an order
of magnitude speed-up over qNEHVI. Moreover, qNEHVI-1 has a remarkable ability to scale to
large batch sizes when the dimensionality of optimization problem is modest. Further investigation of
qNEHVI-1 is needed, but we hope that the readers can recognize the ways in which qNEHVI can
create broader opportunities for research into hypervolume improvement based acquisition functions.

9   Experiments
We empirically evaluate qNEHVI on a set of synthetic and real-world benchmark problems. We
compare it against the following recently proposed methods from the literature: PESMO, MESMO
(which we extend to the handle noisy observations using the noisy information gain from Takeno et al.
[52]), PFES, DGEMO, MOEA/D-EGO, TSEMO, TS-TCH, qEHVI (and qEHVI-PM-CBD, which
uses the posterior mean as a plug-in estimate for the function values at the in-sample points, along
with CBD to scale to large batch sizes), and qNParEGO. We optimize all methods using multi-start
L-BFGS-B with exact gradients (except for PFES, which uses gradients approximated via finite
differences), including TS-TCH where we optimize approximate function samples using RFFs with
500 basis functions. We model each outcome with an independent GP with a Matérn 5/2 ARD kernel
and infer the GP hyperparameters via maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation. For all problems,
we assume that the noise variances are observed (except ABR, where we infer the noise level). See
Appendix G for more details on the experiments and acquisition function implementations.
We evaluate all methods using the logarithm of the difference in hypervolume between the true Pareto
frontier and the approximate Pareto frontier recovered by the algorithm. Since evaluations are noisy,
we compute the hypervolume dominated by the noiseless Pareto frontier across the observed points
for each method.
Synthetic Problems: We consider a noisy variants of the BraninCurrin problem (M = 2, d = 2)
and the DTLZ2 problem (M = 2, d = 6) [13], in which observations are corrupted with zero-mean
additive Gaussian noise with standard deviation of 5% of the range of each objective for BraninCurrin
and 10% for DTLZ2.
Adaptive Bitrate (ABR) Control Policy Optimization: ABR controllers are used for real-time
communication and media streaming applications. Policies for these controllers must be tuned to


                                                   8
                                             BraninCurrin                               DTLZ2                                        ABR                                       VehicleSafety
                             1.75                                    -0.40
                                                                                                                   5.80




Log Hypervolume Difference
                             1.50                                    -0.50                                                                                 1.00

                             1.25                                    -0.60                                         5.60

                                                                                                                                                           0.50
                             1.00                                    -0.70                                         5.40

                             0.75                                    -0.80
                                                                                                                   5.20                                    0.00
                             0.50                                    -0.90
                                                                                                                   5.00
                             0.25                                                                                                                          -0.50
                                                                     -1.00
                             0.00                                                                                  4.80
                                                                     -1.10
                                                                                                                                                           -1.00
                                    0   50     100    150      200           0   50     100     150      200              0   50    100     150      200           0      50      100    150     200
                                        Function Evaluations                      Function Evaluations                        Function Evaluations                        Function Evaluations

                                                            DGEMO            MOEA/D-EGO               PFES                TSEMO           qEHVI-PM-CBD                 qNEHVI-1
                                                            MESMO            PESMO                    TS-TCH              qEHVI           qNEHVI                       qNParEGO



Figure 3: Sequential optimization performance. The shaded region indicates two standard errors of
the mean over 100 replications (only 20 replications were feasible for PESMO due to large runtimes).



deliver a high quality of experience with respect to multiple objectives [40]. In industry settings, A/B
tests with dozens of policies are tested simultaneously since each policy may take days or weeks
to evaluate, producing noisy measurements across multiple objectives. In this experiment, we tune
policies to maximize video quality (bitrate) and minimize stall time. The policy has d = 4 parameters,
which are detailed in Appendix G. We use the Park simulator [41] and sample a random set of
100 traces to obtain noisy measurements of the objectives under a given policy. For comparing the
performance of different methods, we estimate the true noiseless objective using mean objectives
across 300 traces. We infer a homoskedastic noise level jointly with the GP hyperparameters via
MAP estimation.
Vehicle Design Optimization: Optimizing the design of the frame an automobile is important to
maximizing passenger safety, vehicle durability and fuel efficiency. Evaluating a vehicle design
is time-consuming, since either a vehicle must manufactured and crashed, or a nonlinear finite
element-based crash analysis must be run to simulate a collision (which can take over 20 hours per
run) [62]. Hence, evaluating many designs in parallel is critical for reducing end-to-end optimization
time. Observations are often noisy due to manufacturing imperfections, measurement error, or
non-deterministic simulations. In this experiment, we tune the d = 5 widths of various components
of a vehicle’s frame to minimize proxy metrics for (1) fuel consumption, (2) passenger trauma in a
full frontal collison, and (3) vehicle fragility [53]. See Appendix G for details. For this demonstration,
we add zero-mean Gaussian noise with a standard deviation of 1% of the objective range, which
roughly corresponds to the manufacturing noise level used in previous work [62].

9.1                                 Summary of Results:
We find that qNEHVI and qNEHVI-1 outperform all other methods on the noisy benchmarks, both
in the sequential and parallel setting. In the sequential setting (Fig 3), qNEHVI and qNEHVI-1 are
followed closely by qEHVI-PM, and in some cases, even qEHVI. TS-TCH is firmly in the middle
of the pack, while information-theoretic acquisition functions appear to perform the worst. This is
consistent across noise levels; for experiments where we add noise to the objectives, we consider
noise levels ranging from 1% to 10% of the range of each objective (these are magnitudes of the noise
often seen in practice). Previous works have only evaluated MOBO algorithms with noise levels of
1% [25]. In Appendix H, we perform a study showing that qNEHVI consistently performs best with
increasing noise levels up to 30% of the range of each objective.
While parallel evaluation can provide optimization speedups on order of the batch size q, these
evaluations do affect the overall sample complexity of the algorithm, since less information is
available within the synchronous batch setting compared with fully sequential optimization. We
find that, by and large, qNEHVI achieves the greatest hyper-volume for increasingly large batch
sizes, and scales more elegantly relative to TS-TCH and the ParEGO variants (Fig 4). qNEHVI
also consistently outperforms qEHVI-PM-CBD. In Appendix H, we observe that qNEHVI and
qNEHVI-1 provides excellent anytime performance all values of q that we tested. We provide results
on 4 additional test problems in Appendix H.3, and in Appendix H.8, we demonstrate that leveraging
CBD and a single sample path approximation, qNEHVI-1 enables scaling to 5-objective problems,
which is a first for an HVI-based method, to our knowledge.


                                                                                                               9
                                         BraninCurrin                        DTLZ2                            ABR                          VehicleSafety
                             1.50                                                              5.20                            0.75
                                                             -0.50




Log Hypervolume Difference
                             1.25                                                                                              0.50
                                                                                               5.10
                                                             -0.60
                                                                                                                               0.25
                             1.00
                                                             -0.70                             5.00
                                                                                                                               0.00
                             0.75
                                                             -0.80
                                                                                               4.90                            -0.25
                             0.50
                                                             -0.90
                                                                                                                               -0.50
                             0.25                                                              4.80
                                                             -1.00
                                                                                                                               -0.75
                             0.00
                                                             -1.10                             4.70
                                                                                                                               -1.00
                             -0.25
                                     1   8         16   32           1   8           16   32          1   8         16    32           1   8         16    32
                                              q                               q                                q                                q
                                                        DGEMO                TS-TCH        qEHVI               qNEHVI          qNParEGO
                                                        MOEA/D-EGO           TSEMO         qEHVI-PM-CBD        qNEHVI-1



Figure 4: The quality of the final Pareto frontier identified by each method with increasing batch
sizes q given a budget of 224 function evaluations. qEHVI is only included for q = 1 and q = 8
because the IEP scales exponential with q. DGEMO is omitted on the ABR problem because it was
prohibitively slow with time-consuming ABR simulations and on the VehicleSafety problem because
DGEMO consistently crashed in the graph cutting algorithm.


In our experiments, we find that qNEHVI-1 is among the top performers on relatively low-
dimensional problems. Given the strong performance of qNEHVI-1, we examine its performance as
the dimensionality of the search space increases in Appendix H.5. We find that qNEHVI is more
robust than qNEHVI-1 in higher-dimensional search spaces, but further investigation is needed
into how the number of the Fourier basis functions affects the performance of qNEHVI-1 in high-
dimensional search spaces.
Optimization wall time: Across all experiments, we observe competitive wall times for optimizing
qNEHVI and qNEHVI-1 (all wall time comparisons are provided in Appendix H). On a GPU,
optimizing qNEHVI-1 incurs the lowest wall time of any method that we tested on every single
problem and optimizing qNEHVI is faster than optimizing information-theoretic methods on all
problems. Using efficient low-rank Cholesky updates, qNEHVI is often faster than the qNParEGO
implementation in BoTorch on a GPU.

10                                   Discussion
We proposed NEHVI, a novel acquisition function that provides a principled approach to parallel
and noisy multi-objective Bayesian optimization. NEHVI is a one-step Bayes-optimal policy for
maximizing the hypervolume dominated by the Pareto frontier in noisy and noise-free settings.
NEHVI is made feasible by a new approach to computing joint hypervolumes (CBD), and we
demonstrated that CBD enables scalable, parallel candidate generation with both noiseless qEHVI
and qNEHVI. We provide theoretical results on optimizing a MC estimator of qNEHVI using sample
average approximation and demonstrate significant improvements in optimization performance over
state-of-the-art MOBO algorithms.
Yet, our work has some limitations. While the information-theoretic acquisition functions tested here
perform poorly on our benchmarks, they do allow for decoupled evaluations of different objectives in
cases where querying one objective may be more resource-intensive than querying other objectives.
Optimizing such acquisition functions is a non-trivial task, and it is possible that with improved
procedures, such acquisition functions could yield improved performance and provide a principled
approach to selecting evaluation sources on a budget. Although practically fast enough for most
Bayesian optimization tasks, exact hypervolume computation has super-polynomial complexity in the
number of objectives. Combining qNEHVI with differentiable approximate methods for computing
hypervolume (e.g. Couckuyt et al. [9], Golovin & Zhang [23]) could lead to further speed-ups.
We hope that the core ideas presented in this work, including the CBD approach, can provide a
framework to support the development of new computationally efficient MOBO methods.




                                                                                          10
References
 [1] Asadpour, A., Nazerzadeh, H., and Saberi, A. Stochastic submodular maximization. In
     Papadimitriou, C. and Zhang, S. (eds.), Internet and Network Economics. Springer Berlin
     Heidelberg, 2008.
 [2] Balandat, M., Karrer, B., Jiang, D. R., Daulton, S., Letham, B., Wilson, A. G., and Bakshy,
     E. BoTorch: A Framework for Efficient Monte-Carlo Bayesian Optimization. In Advances in
     Neural Information Processing Systems 33, 2020.
 [3] Belakaria, S., Deshwal, A., and Doppa, J. R. Max-value entropy search for multi-objective
     bayesian optimization. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32, 2019.
 [4] Binois, M., Ginsbourger, D., and Roustant, O. Quantifying uncertainty on pareto fronts with
     gaussian process conditional simulations. Eur. J. Oper. Res., 243:386–394, 2015.
 [5] Bradford, E., Schweidtmann, A. M., and Lapkin, A. Efficient multiobjective optimization
     employing gaussian processes, spectral sampling and a genetic algorithm. Journal of global
     optimization, 71(2):407–438, 2018.
 [6] Brockhoff, D., Tusar, T., Auger, A., and Hansen, N. Using well-understood single-objective
     functions in multiobjective black-box optimization test suites, 2019.
 [7] Calandra, R. and Peters, J. Pareto front modeling for sensitivity analysis in multi-objective
     bayesian optimization. 2014.
 [8] Calandra, R., Seyfarth, A., Peters, J., and Deisenroth, M. P. Bayesian optimization for learning
     gaits under uncertainty. Annals of Mathematics and Artificial Intelligence, 76(1):5–23, Feb
     2016. ISSN 1573-7470. doi: 10.1007/s10472-015-9463-9.
 [9] Couckuyt, I., Deschrijver, D., and Dhaene, T. Towards efficient multiobjective optimization:
     Multiobjective statistical criterions. In 2012 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, pp.
     1–8, 2012.
[10] Daulton, S., Singh, S., Avadhanula, V., Dimmery, D., and Bakshy, E. Thompson sampling for
     contextual bandit problems with auxiliary safety constraints. In NeurIPS Workshop on Safety
     and Robustness in Decision Making, 2019.
[11] Daulton, S., Balandat, M., and Bakshy, E. Differentiable expected hypervolume improvement for
     parallel multi-objective Bayesian optimization. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems 33, NeurIPS, 2020.
[12] Deb, K., Pratap, A., Agarwal, S., and Meyarivan, T. A fast and elitist multiobjective genetic
     algorithm: Nsga-ii. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 6(2):182–197, 2002.
[13] Deb, K., Thiele, L., Laumanns, M., and Zitzler, E. Scalable multi-objective optimization
     test problems. volume 1, pp. 825–830, 06 2002. ISBN 0-7803-7282-4. doi: 10.1109/
     CEC.2002.1007032.
[14] Deb, K., Gupta, S., Daum, D., Branke, J., Mall, A. K., and Padmanabhan, D. Reliability-based
     optimization using evolutionary algorithms. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation,
     13(5):1054–1074, 2009. doi: 10.1109/TEVC.2009.2014361.
[15] Dächert, K., Klamroth, K., Lacour, R., and Vanderpooten, D. Efficient computation of the
     search region in multi-objective optimization. European Journal of Operational Research, 260
     (3):841 – 855, 2017.
[16] Emmerich, M. T. M., Giannakoglou, K. C., and Naujoks, B. Single- and multiobjective
     evolutionary optimization assisted by gaussian random field metamodels. IEEE Transactions
     on Evolutionary Computation, 10(4):421–439, 2006.
[17] Feng, Q., Letham, B., Bakshy, E., and Mao, H. High-Dimensional Contextual Policy Search with
     Unknown Context Rewards using Bayesian Optimization. In Advances in Neural Information
     Processing Systems 33, 2020.
[18] Fisher, M. L., Nemhauser, G. L., and Wolsey, L. A. An analysis of approximations for
     maximizing submodular set functions—II, pp. 73–87. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin,
     Heidelberg, 1978.
[19] Frazier, P. I. A tutorial on bayesian optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.02811, 2018.


                                                 11
[20] Garrido-Merchán, E. C. and Hernández-Lobato, D. Predictive entropy search for multi-objective
     bayesian optimization with constraints. Neurocomputing, 361:50–68, 2019.
[21] Garrido-Merchán, E. C. and Hernández-Lobato, D. Parallel predictive entropy search for
     multi-objective bayesian optimization with constraints, 2020.
[22] Gelbart, M. A., Snoek, J., and Adams, R. P. Bayesian optimization with unknown constraints.
     In Proceedings of the 30th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence, UAI, 2014.
[23] Golovin, D. and Zhang, Q. Random hypervolume scalarizations for provable multi-objective
     black box optimization, 2020.
[24] Hernández-Lobato, J. M., Hoffman, M. W., and Ghahramani, Z. Predictive entropy search for
     efficient global optimization of black-box functions. In Proceedings of the 27th International
     Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems - Volume 1, NIPS’14, pp. 918–926,
     Cambridge, MA, USA, 2014. MIT Press.
[25] Hernández-Lobato, D., Hernández-Lobato, J. M., Shah, A., and Adams, R. P. Predictive entropy
     search for multi-objective bayesian optimization, 2015.
[26] Horn, D., Dagge, M., Sun, X., and Bischl, B. First investigations on noisy model-based multi-
     objective optimization. volume 10173, pp. 298–313, 02 2017. ISBN 978-3-319-54156-3. doi:
     10.1007/978-3-319-54157-0_21.
[27] Igel, C., Hansen, N., and Roth, S. Covariance matrix adaptation for multi-objective optimization.
     Evolutionary Computation, 15(1):1–28, 2007. doi: 10.1162/evco.2007.15.1.1.
[28] Jiang, S., Zhang, H., Cong, W., Liang, Z., Ren, Q., Wang, C., Zhang, F., and Jiao, X. Multi-
     objective optimization of smallholder apple production: Lessons from the bohai bay region.
     Sustainability, 12(16):6496, 2020.
[29] Jones, D. R., Schonlau, M., and Welch, W. J. Efficient global optimization of expensive
     black-box functions. Journal of Global Optimization, 13:455–492, 1998.
[30] Kingma, D. P. and Welling, M. Auto-Encoding Variational Bayes. arXiv e-prints, pp.
     arXiv:1312.6114, Dec 2013.
[31] Klamroth, K., Lacour, R., and Vanderpooten, D. On the representation of the search region
     in multi-objective optimization. European Journal of Operational Research, 245(3):767–778,
     Sep 2015. ISSN 0377-2217. doi: 10.1016/j.ejor.2015.03.031. URL http://dx.doi.org/
     10.1016/j.ejor.2015.03.031.
[32] Knowles, J. Parego: a hybrid algorithm with on-line landscape approximation for expensive
     multiobjective optimization problems. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 10(1):
     50–66, 2006.
[33] Koch, P., Wagner, T., Emmerich, M. T., Back, T., and Konen, W. Efficient multi-criteria
     optimization on noisy machine learning problems. Appl. Soft Comput., 29(C):357–370, April
     2015. ISSN 1568-4946. doi: 10.1016/j.asoc.2015.01.005. URL https://doi.org/10.1016/
     j.asoc.2015.01.005.
[34] Lacour, R., Klamroth, K., and Fonseca, C. M. A box decomposition algorithm to compute the
     hypervolume indicator. Computers & Operations Research, 79:347 – 360, 2017.
[35] LeCun, Y., Cortes, C., and Burges, C. Mnist handwritten digit database. ATT Labs [Online].
     Available: http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist, 2, 2010.
[36] Letham, B. and Bakshy, E. Bayesian optimization for policy search via online-offline ex-
     perimentation. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 20(145):1–30, 2019. URL http:
     //jmlr.org/papers/v20/18-225.html.
[37] Letham, B., Karrer, B., Ottoni, G., and Bakshy, E. Constrained bayesian optimization with
     noisy experiments. Bayesian Analysis, 14(2):495–519, 06 2019. doi: 10.1214/18-BA1110.
[38] Liao, T., Wang, G., Yang, B., Lee, R., Pister, K., Levine, S., and Calandra, R. Data-efficient
     learning of morphology and controller for a microrobot. In 2019 International Conference on
     Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 2488–2494. IEEE, 2019.
[39] Lukovic, K. M., Tian, Y., and Matusik, W. Diversity-guided multi-objective bayesian opti-
     mization with batch evaluations. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33,
     2020.


                                                 12
[40] Mao, H., Chen, S., Dimmery, D., Singh, S., Blaisdell, D., Tian, Y., Alizadeh, M., and Bakshy, E.
     Real-world video adaptation with reinforcement learning. 2019.
[41] Mao, H., Negi, P., Narayan, A., Wang, H., Yang, J., Wang, H., Marcus, R., Addanki, R.,
     Shirkoohi, M. K., He, S., Nathan, V., Cangialosi, F., Venkatakrishnan, S. B., Weng, W.-H., Han,
     S.-W., Kraska, T., and Alizadeh, M. Park: An open platform for learning-augmented computer
     systems. In NeurIPS, 2019.
[42] Mennen, S. M., Alhambra, C., Allen, C. L., Barberis, M., Berritt, S., Brandt, T. A., Campbell,
     A. D., Castañón, J., Cherney, A. H., Christensen, M., Damon, D. B., Eugenio de Diego,
     J., García-Cerrada, S., García-Losada, P., Haro, R., Janey, J., Leitch, D. C., Li, L., Liu, F.,
     Lobben, P. C., MacMillan, D. W. C., Magano, J., McInturff, E., Monfette, S., Post, R. J.,
     Schultz, D., Sitter, B. J., Stevens, J. M., Strambeanu, I. I., Twilton, J., Wang, K., and Zajac,
     M. A. The evolution of high-throughput experimentation in pharmaceutical development and
     perspectives on the future. Organic Process Research & Development, 23(6):1213–1242, 2019.
     doi: 10.1021/acs.oprd.9b00140.
[43] Namkoong, H., Daulton, S., and Bakshy, E. Distilled thompson sampling: Practical and
     efficient thompson sampling via imitation learning. In NeurIPS Offline Reinforcement Learning
     Workshop, 2020.
[44] Osborne, M. A. Bayesian gaussian processes for sequential prediction, optimisation and
     quadrature. 2010.
[45] Paria, B., Kandasamy, K., and Póczos, B. A Flexible Multi-Objective Bayesian Optimization
     Approach using Random Scalarizations. ArXiv e-prints, May 2018.
[46] Rahimi, A. and Recht, B. Random features for large-scale kernel machines. In Proceedings
     of the 20th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS’07, pp.
     1177–1184, Red Hook, NY, USA, 2007. Curran Associates Inc. ISBN 9781605603520.
[47] Rasmussen, C. E. Gaussian Processes in Machine Learning, pp. 63–71. Springer Berlin
     Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2004.
[48] Real, E., Aggarwal, A., Huang, Y., and Le, Q. V. Regularized evolution for image classifier
     architecture search. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 33(01):
     4780–4789, Jul. 2019. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014780. URL https://ojs.aaai.org/
     index.php/AAAI/article/view/4405.
[49] Schuster, M. Speech recognition for mobile devices at google. In Zhang, B.-T. and Orgun,
     M. A. (eds.), PRICAI 2010: Trends in Artificial Intelligence, pp. 8–10, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010.
     Springer Berlin Heidelberg. ISBN 978-3-642-15246-7.
[50] Shahriari, B., Swersky, K., Wang, Z., Adams, R. P., and de Freitas, N. Taking the human out of
     the loop: A review of bayesian optimization. Proceedings of the IEEE, 104(1):148–175, 2016.
[51] Suzuki, S., Takeno, S., Tamura, T., Shitara, K., and Karasuyama, M. Multi-objective
     Bayesian optimization using pareto-frontier entropy. In III, H. D. and Singh, A. (eds.), Pro-
     ceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 119 of Pro-
     ceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 9279–9288. PMLR, 13–18 Jul 2020. URL
     http://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/suzuki20a.html.
[52] Takeno, S., Fukuoka, H., Tsukada, Y., Koyama, T., Shiga, M., Takeuchi, I., and Karasuyama, M.
     Multi-fidelity Bayesian optimization with max-value entropy search and its parallelization. In
     III, H. D. and Singh, A. (eds.), Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine
     Learning, volume 119 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 9334–9345. PMLR,
     13–18 Jul 2020. URL http://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/takeno20a.html.
[53] Tanabe, R. and Ishibuchi, H. An easy-to-use real-world multi-objective optimization problem
     suite. Applied Soft Computing, 89:106078, 2020. ISSN 1568-4946. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/
     j.asoc.2020.106078.
[54] Thompson, W. R. On the likelihood that one unknown probability exceeds another in view of
     the evidence of two samples. Biometrika, 25(3/4):285–294, 1933.
[55] Touré, C., Hansen, N., Auger, A., and Brockhoff, D. Uncrowded hypervolume improvement:
     Como-cma-es and the sofomore framework. In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary
     Computation Conference, GECCO ’19, pp. 638–646, New York, NY, USA, 2019. Association
     for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450361118. doi: 10.1145/3321707.3321852. URL
     https://doi.org/10.1145/3321707.3321852.


                                                 13
[56] Wang, R., Xiong, J., Ishibuchi, H., Wu, G., and Zhang, T. On the effect of reference
     point in moea/d for multi-objective optimization. Applied Soft Computing, 58:25–34,
     2017. ISSN 1568-4946. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2017.04.002. URL https:
     //www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494617301722.
[57] Wilson, J., Hutter, F., and Deisenroth, M. Maximizing acquisition functions for bayesian
     optimization. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31, pp. 9905–9916. 2018.
[58] Yang, K., Emmerich, M., Deutz, A., and Bäck, T. Multi-objective bayesian global optimization
     using expected hypervolume improvement gradient. Swarm and Evolutionary Computation, 44:
     945 – 956, 2019. ISSN 2210-6502. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.swevo.2018.10.007.
[59] Yang, K., Emmerich, M., Deutz, A. H., and Bäck, T. Efficient computation of expected
     hypervolume improvement using box decomposition algorithms. CoRR, abs/1904.12672, 2019.
[60] Yang, K., Palar, P., Emmerich, M., Shimoyama, K., and Bäck, T. A multi-point mechanism of
     expected hypervolume improvement for parallel multi-objective bayesian global optimization.
     pp. 656–663, 07 2019. doi: 10.1145/3321707.3321784.
[61] Yang, K., Palar, P. S., Emmerich, M., Shimoyama, K., and Bäck, T. A multi-point mech-
     anism of expected hypervolume improvement for parallel multi-objective bayesian global
     optimization. In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference,
     GECCO ’19, pp. 656–663, New York, NY, USA, 2019. Association for Computing Machinery.
     ISBN 9781450361118. doi: 10.1145/3321707.3321784. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/
     3321707.3321784.
[62] Youn, B. D., Choi, K., Yang, R.-J., and Gu, L. Reliability-based design optimization for
     crashworthiness of vehicle side impact. Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization, 26:
     272–283, 02 2004. doi: 10.1007/s00158-003-0345-0.
[63] Zhang, G. and Block, D. E. Using highly efficient nonlinear experimental design methods for
     optimization of lactococcus lactis fermentation in chemically defined media. Biotechnology
     progress, 25(6):1587–1597, 2009.
[64] Zhang, Q., Liu, W., Tsang, E., and Virginas, B. Expensive multiobjective optimization by
     moea/d with gaussian process model. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 14(3):
     456–474, 2010. doi: 10.1109/TEVC.2009.2033671.
[65] Zhou, A., Zhang, Q., and Zhang, G. A multiobjective evolutionary algorithm based on decom-
     position and probability model. In 2012 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, pp. 1–8,
     2012. doi: 10.1109/CEC.2012.6252954.
[66] Zitzler, E., Deb, K., and Thiele, L. Comparison of multiobjective evolutionary algorithms:
     Empirical results. Evol. Comput., 8(2):173–195, June 2000. ISSN 1063-6560. doi: 10.1162/
     106365600568202. URL https://doi.org/10.1162/106365600568202.
[67] Zitzler, E., Deb, K., and Thiele, L. Comparison of multiobjective evolutionary algorithms:
     Empirical results. Evolutionary computation, 8(2):173–195, 2000.




                                              14
                                        Appendix to:
 Parallel Bayesian Optimization of Multiple Noisy
Objectives with Expected Hypervolume Improvement

A    Potential Societal Impact

Bayesian Optimization specifically aims to increase sample efficiency for hard optimization algo-
rithms, and consequently can help achieve better solutions without incurring large societal costs.
For instance, as demonstrated in this work, automotive design problems may be solved much faster,
reducing the amount of computationally costly simulations and thus the energy footprint during
development. At the same time, improved solutions mean that high crash safety can be achieved with
lighter cars, resulting in fewer resources required for their production and, importantly, improving fuel
economy of the whole vehicle fleet. Increased robustness to noisy observations further helps reduce
the resources spent on evaluating regions of the search space that are not promising. Improvements
to the optimization performance and practicality of multi-objective Bayesian optimization have the
potential to allow decision makers to better understand and make more informed decisions across
multiple trade-offs. We expect these directions to be particularly important as Bayesian optimization
is increasingly used for applications such as recommender systems [36], where auxiliary goals such
as fairness must be accounted for. Of course, at the end of the day, exactly what objectives decision
makers choose to optimize, and how they balance those trade-offs (and whether that is done in
equitable fashion) is up to the individuals themselves.



B    Computing Hypervolume Improvement with Box Decompositions

Definition 3. For a set of objective vectors {f (xi )}qi=1 , a reference point r ∈ RM , and a Pareto
frontier P, let ∆({f (xi )}qi=1 , P, r) ⊂ RM denote the set of points (1) that are dominated by
{f (xi )}qi=1 , (2) that dominate r, and (3) that are not dominated by P.

Let {S1 , ..., SK } be a set ofK disjoint axis-aligned rectangles where each Sk is defined by a pair of
lower and upper vertices lk ∈ RM and uk ∈ RM ∪ {∞}. Figure 5 shows an example decomposition.
Such a partitioning allows for efficient piece-wise computation of the hypervolume improvement from
a new point f (xi ) by computing the volume of the intersection of the region dominated exclusively
by the new point with ∆({f (xi ), P, r) (and not dominated by the P ) with each hyperrectangle Sk .
Although ∆(f (xi ), P, r) is a non-rectangular polytope, the intersection of ∆(f (xi ), P, r) with each
rectangle Sk is a rectangular polytope and the vertices bounding the hyperrectangle corresponding
to ∆(f (xi ), P, r) ∩ Sk can be easily computed: the lower bound vertex is lk and the upper bound
                                                                                                 
vertex is the component-wise minimum of uk and the new point f (x): zk := min uk , f (x) . The
hypervolume improvement can be computed by summing over the volume of ∆(f (xi ), P, r) ∩ Sk
over all Sk


                             K                         M
                                                     K Y
                           X                      X     (m)  (m) 
              HVI f (x), P =   HVIk f (x), lk , uk =      zk − lk + ,                                (7)
                                 k=1                           k=1 m=1



where [·]+ denotes the max(·, 0) operation.


                                                  15
                                                            u1             u2         u3               u4
                                      f (2)(x)

                                                  S1             S2         S3             S4

                                                             f(x1)
                                           l1                                                   f(x)
                                                       l2                   f(x2)


                                                                      l3               f(x3)

                                           r                                     l4             f (1)(x)


Figure 5: The hypervolume improvement from a new point f (x) is shown in blue. The current
Pareto frontier P is given by the green points, the green area is the hypervolume of the Pareto frontier
P given reference point r. The white rectangles S1 , ..., Sk are a disjoint, box decomposition of the
non-dominated space that can be used to efficiently compute the hypervolume improvement.


C     qNEHVI under Different Computational Approaches
C.1   Derivation of IEP formulation of qNEHVI

From (4), the expected noisy joint hypervolume improvement is given by
                                                                            N
                                                                 1 X
                            α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =                        HVI(f˜t (Xcand )|Pt )
                                                                 N t=1

Recall that the joint HVI formulation under the IEP derived by Daulton et al. [11] is given by
                                             q
                                           K X                                                      M
                                           X   X                                                    Y  (m)     (m) 
                 HVI(f (Xcand )|P) =                                             (−1)j+1               zk,Xj − lk +     (8)
                                           k=1 j=1 Xj ∈Xj                                          m=1

                                                                           (m)                              (m)
where Xj := {Xj ⊆ Xcand : |Xj | = j} and zk,t,Xj := min[uk,t , f (m) (xi1 ), ..., f (m) (xij )] for
Xj = {xi1 , ..., xij }. In qNEHVI, the lower and upper bounds and the number of rectangles in each
box decomposition depend Pt . Hence,
                                       N Kt Xq             M
                                    1 XX        X         Y    (m)       (m) 
              α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =                 (−1)j+1      zk,t,Xj − lk,t +
                                    N t=1   j=1  k=1      m=1         Xj ∈Xj

where zk,t,Xj := min[uk,t , f˜t (xi1 ), ..., f˜t (xij )] for Xj = {xi1 , ..., xij }.
       (m)            (m)     (m)              (m)



C.2   Derivation of CBD formulation of qNEHVI

Using Definition 2, we rewrite (4) as
                                                       N
                                         1 X
                    α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =        HVI(f˜t (Xcand )|Pt )
                                         N t=1
                                            N                                
                                         1 X         ˜
                                       =        HV(f (Xcand ) ∪ Pt ) − HV(Pt )
                                         N t=1

Adding and subtracting HV(f˜({x1 ), ..., f˜(xq−1 )}) ∪ Pt ) yields
                             N 
                          1 X
      α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =        HV(f˜(Xcand ) ∪ Pt ) − HV(f˜({x1 ), ..., f˜(xq−1 )}) ∪ Pt )
                          N t=1
                                                                                 
                                 + HV({f˜(x1 ), ..., f˜(xq−1 )} ∪ Pt ) − HV(Pt ) .


                                                                       16
Applying Definition 2 again leads to (6):
                                             N
                                       1 X
                 α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) =         HVI(f˜(xq )|{f˜(x1 ), ..., f˜(xq−1 )} ∪ Pt )
                                       N t=1
                                                 N
                                             1 X
                                         +         HVI({f˜(x1 ), ..., f˜(xq−1 )})|Pt ).
                                             N t=1

Note that using the method of common random numbers, the CBD formulation is mathematically
equivalent to IEP formulation, but the computing qNEHVI with the CBD trick is much more
efficient.

D       Complexity Analysis
D.1     Complexity of Computing qNEHVI

In this section we study the complexity of computing the acquisition function. For brevity, we omit
the cost of posterior sampling, which is the same for the CBD and IEP approaches.6
The CBD approach requires recomputing box decompositions when generating each new candidate.
In the worst case, each new candidate is Pareto
                                               optimal under the fixed posterior samples, which leads
to a time complexity of O N (n+ i)M for computing the box decompositions in iteration i [59].
Note that there are O (n + i)M rectangles in each box decomposition. Given box decompositions
and posterior samples at the new point, the complexity
                                                         of computing the acquisition function on a
single-threaded machine is O M N (n + i)M . Hence, the total time complexity for generating q
candidates (ignoring potentially additional time complexity for automated gradient computations) is
            X   q                            X q           
                            M                               M
                                                                = O Nopt N M (n + q)M q ,
                                                                                            
        O N         (n + i)     + O Nopt M N        (n + i)                                        (9)
                i=1                                  i=1
                                        q
                                         X                   
                  O N nM + O Nopt M N nM   2i−1                  = O Nopt N M nM 2q q .
                                                                                    
                                                                                                         (10)
                                                     i=1
The second term on the left hand side in both (9) and (10) is the acquisition optimization complexity,
which boils down to O(Nopt ) given infinite computing cores because the acquisition computation is
completely parallelizable. However, as shown in Figure 2, even for relatively small values of q, CPU
cores become saturated and GPU memory limits are reached.
Everything else fixed, the asymptotic relative time complexity of using CBD over IEP is therefore
q −M 2q → ∞ as q → ∞.
                                                                              
Similarly, the space complexity under the CBD formulation, O M N (n + q)M , is also polynomial  
in q, whereas the space complexity is exponential in q under the IEP formulation: O M N nM q2q .
Everything else fixed, the asymptotic relative complexity (both in terms of time and space) of using
CBD over IEP is therefore q M 2−q → 0 as q → ∞.

D.2     Efficient Batched Computation

As noted above, using either the IEP or CBD approach, the acquisition computation given the box
decompositions is highly parallelizable. However, since the number of hyperrectangles Kt in the box
decompoosition can be different under each posterior sample f˜t , stacking the box decompositions
does not result in a rectangular matrix; the matrix is ragged. In order to leverage modern batched
    6
     Sampling from p(f (Xn )|Dn ) incurs a one-time cost of O(M n3 ) if each of the M outcomes is modeled
by an independent GP, as it involves computing a Cholesky decomposition of the n × n posterior covari-
ance (at the n observed points) for each. Using low-rank updates of the Cholesky factor to sample from
p(f (Xn , x0 , ..., xi )|Dn ) has a time complexity of O(M (n + i − 1)2 ) for 1 ≤ i ≤ q since each triangular
solve has quadratic complexity. Sampling is more costly when using a multi-task GP model, as it requires a root
decomposition of the M n × M n posterior covariance across data points and tasks.


                                                      17
tensor computational paradigms, we pad the box decompositions with empty hyperrectangles (e.g.
l = 0, u = 0) such that the box decomposition under every posterior sample contains exactly
K = maxt Kt hyperrectangles, which allows us to define a t × K dimensional matrix of box
decompositions for use in batched tensor computation.
In the 2-objective case, instead of padding the box decomposition, the Pareto frontier under each
posterior sample can be padded instead by repeating a point on the Pareto Frontier such that the
padded Pareto frontier under every posterior sample has exactly maxt |Pt | points. This enables
computing the box decompositions analytically for all posterior samples in parallel using efficient
batched computation. The resulting box decompositions all have K = maxt |Pt | + 1 hyperrectangles
(some of which may be empty).

E         Theoretical Results
Let xprev ∈ Rnd denote the stacked set of previously evaluated points in Xn : xprev := [xT1 , ..., xTn ]T .
Similarly, let xcand ∈ Rqd denote the stacked set of candidates in Xcand : xcand := [xTn+1 , ..., xTn+q ]T .
Let f˜t (xprev , xcand ) := [f˜t (x1 )T , ..., f˜t (xn+q )T ]T denote the tth sample of the corresponding objec-
tives, which we write using the parameterization trick as
                            ft (xprev , xcand ) = µ(xprev , xcand ) + L(xprev , xcand )ζt ,

where µ(xprev , xcand ) : R(n+q)d → R(n+q)M is the multi-output GP’s posterior mean and
L(xcand , xprev ) ∈ R(n+q)M ×(n+q)M is a root decomposition (often a Cholesky decomposition) of
the multi-output GP’s posterior covariance Σ(xcand , xprev ) ∈ R(n+q)M ×(n+q)M , and ζt ∈ R(n+q)M
with ζt ∼ N (0, I(n+q)M ).7

Proof of Theorem 1. Since the sequential NEHVI is equivalent to the qNEHVI with q = 1, we
prove Theorem 1 for the general q > 1 case. Recall from Section C.2, that using the method of
common random numbers to fix the base samples, the IEP and CBD formulations are equivalent.
Therefore, we proceed only with the IEP formulation for this proof.
We closely follow the proof of Theorem 2 in Daulton et al. [11]. We consider the setting from Balandat
                               (m)
et al. [2, Section D.5]. Let ft (xi , ζt ) = S{i,m} (µ(xcand , xprev ) + L(xcand , xprev )ζt ) denote the
posterior distribution over the mth outcome at xi as a random variable, where S{i,m} denotes the
selection matrix (kS{i,m} k∞ ≤ 1 for all i = 1, ..., n + q and m = 1, ..., M ), to extract the element
corresponding to outcome m for the point xi . The HVI under a single posterior sample is given by
                                                 q
                                              Kt X                       M
                                              X    X                     Y  (m)           (m) 
                   A(xcand , ζt ; xprev ) =                    (−1)j+1      zk,Xj (ζt ) − lk +
                                              k=1 j=1 Xj ∈Xj             m=1

where Xj := {Xj = {xi1 , ...xij } ⊆ Xcand : |Xj | = j, n + 1 ≤ i1 ≤ ij ≤ n + q} and
 (m)               (m)                                            
zk,Xj (ζt ) = min uk , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt ) . Note that the box decomposition of
the non-dominated space {S1 , ..., SKt } and the number of rectangles in the box decomposition
depend on ζt . Importantly, the number of hyperrectangles Kt in the decomposition is a finite and
                    M
bounded by O(|Pt |b 2 c+1 ) [34, 59], where |Pt | ≤ n.
To satisfy the conditions of [2, Theorem 3], we need to show that there exists an integrable function
` : Rq×M 7→ R such that for almost every ζt and all xcand , ycand ⊆ X ,
                      |A(xcand , ζt ; xprev ) − A(ycand , ζt ; xprev )| ≤ `(ζt )kxcand − ycand k.             (11)
We note that xprev is fixed and omit xprev for brevity, except where necessary.
Let                                     h                                                               i
                                             (m)                                                   (m)
             ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) := min uk,t , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt ) − lk,t
                                                                                                
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                        +

      7
      Theorem 1 can be extended to handle non-iid base samples from a family of quasi-Monte Carlo methods
as in Balandat et al. [2].


                                                          18
Because of linearity, it suffices to show that this condition holds for
                        M                                    M h                                                                   i
                        Y                                    Y          (m)                                                   (m)
                                                                    min uk,t , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt ) − lk,t
                                                                                                                           
Ã(xcand , ζt ) :=           ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) =
                                                                                                                                       +
                       m=1                                 m=1
                                                                                                                             (12)
for all k, j, and Xj . Note that we can bound ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) by
                                               (m)                                                (m)
            ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) ≤ min uk,t , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt ) − lk,t
                                                                                              
                                                                                                                             (13)
                                         (m)         (m)
                                     ≤ |lk,t | + min uk,t , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt ) .
                                                                                                        

                                    (m)
Consider the case where uk,t = ∞. Then
                 (m)
         min[uk,t , f (xi1 , ζt )(m) , ..., f (m) (xij , ζt )] = min[f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), ..., f (m) (xij , ζt )].
                       (m)
Now suppose uk,t < ∞. Then
           (m)                                                                                                         (m)
   min[uk,t , f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), ...f (m) (xij , ζt )] < min[f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), ...f (m) (xij , ζt )] + uk,t .
Let                                                      (
                                                              (m)                (m)
                                               (m)           uk,t , if uk,t < ∞
                                              wk,t =
                                                             0,     otherwise.
             (m)                                                                                (m)        (m)
Note that lk,t is finite and bounded from above and below by r(m) ≤ lk,t < uk,t for all k, t, m,
where r(m) is the mth dimension of the reference point.
Hence, we can express the bound in (13) as
                                      (m)       (m)
         ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) ≤ |lk,t | + |wk,t | + min f (m) (xi1 , ζt ), . . . , f (m) (xij , ζt )
                                                                                                       

                                      (m)       (m)
                                  ≤ |lk,t | + |wk,t | +
                                                        X
                                                             f (m) (xij , ζt ) .                                             (14)
                                                                    i1 ,...,ij

Note that we can bound i1 ,...,ij f (m) (xij , ζt ) by
                                  P

          X
               f (m) (xij , ζt ) ≤ |Xj | kµ(m) (xcand , xprev )k + kL(m) (xcand , xprev )kkζt k .
                                                                                               
          i1 ,...,ij

Substituting this into (14) yields
                               (m)       (m)
|ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt )| ≤ |lk,t | + |wk,t | + |Xj | kµ(m) (xcand , xprev )k + kL(m) (xcand , xprev )kkζt k
                                                                                                             

                                                                                                          (15)
for all k, m, j, Xj .
Because of our assumptions of that X is compact and that the mean and covariance func-
tions are continuously differentiable, µ(xcand , xprev ), L(xcand , xprev ), ∇xcand µ(xcand , xprev ), and
∇xcand L(xcand , xprev ) are uniformly bounded. Hence, there exist C1 , C2 < ∞ such that
                                          |ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt )| ≤ C1 + C2 kζt k
for all k, m, j, Xj .
Consider the M = 2 case. Omitting the indices k, t, j, Xj for brevity, we have

Ã(xcand , ζt )−Ã(ycand , ζt )
                       = ã1 (xcand , ζt )ã2 (xcand , ζt ) − ã1 (ycand , ζt )ã2 (ycand , ζt )
                                                                                                                                          
                       = ã1 (xcand , ζt ) ã2 (xcand , ζt ) − ã2 (ycand , ζt ) + ã2 (ycand , ζt ) ã1 (xcand , ζt ) − ã1 (ycand , ζt )
                       ≤ |ã1 (xcand , ζt )| ã2 (xcand , ζt ) − ã2 (ycand , ζt ) + |ã2 (ycand , ζt )| ã1 (xcand , ζt ) − ã1 (ycand , ζt ) .
                                                                                                                            (16)


                                                                 19
Using (15), we can bound |ãk,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) − ãkmjXj (ycand , ζt )| by
|ãk,t,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) − ãk,t,m,j,Xj (ycand , ζt )|
                   X
               ≤           S{ij ,m} (µ(xcand , xprev ) + L(xcand , xprev )ζt ) − S{ij ,m} (µ(ycand , xprev ) + L(ycand , xprev )ζt )
                   i1 ,...,ij
                                                                                                             
                ≤ |Xj | kµ(xcand , xprev ) − µ(ycand , xprev )k + kL(xcand , xprev ) − L(ycand , xprev )kkζt k .

Since µ and L have uniformly bounded gradients with respect to xcand and ycand , they are Lipschitz.
Therefore, there exist C3 , C4 < ∞ such that
             |ãk,t,m,j,Xj (xcand , ζt ) − ãk,t,m,j,Xj (ycand , ζt )| ≤ (C3 + C4 kζt k)kxcand − ycand k       (17)
for all xcand , ycand , k, t, m, j, Xj .
Substituting (17) into (16), we have
                                                                                   
  Ã(xcand , ζt ) − Ã(ycand , ζt ) ≤ 2 C1 C3 + (C1 C4 + C2 C3 )kζt k + C2 C4 kζt k2 kxcand − ycand k

The M > 2 is very similar to the M = 2 case in (16) albeit with more complex expansions. Similarly,
There exist C < ∞ such that
                                                                   M
                                                                   X
                           Ã(xcand , ζt ) − Ã(ycand , ζt ) ≤ C         kζt km kxcand − ycand k
                                                                   m=1
                           PM
Let us define `(ζt ) := C m=1 kζt km . Note that `(ζt ) is integrable because all absolute moments
exist for the Gaussian distribution. Since this satisfies the criteria for Theorem 3 in Balandat et al. [2],
the theorem holds for qNEHVI.

E.1       Unbiased Gradient estimates from the MC formulation

As noted in Section 7, we can show the following (note that this result is not actually required for
Theorem 1):
Proposition 1. Suppose that the GP mean and covariance function are continuously differentiable.
Suppose further that the candidate set Xcand has no duplicates, and that the sample-level gradients
∇x HVI(f˜t (x)) are obtained using the reparameterization trick as in Balandat et al. [2]. Then
                                   N
                                                 
                        E ∇xcand α̂qNEHVI (xcand ) = ∇xcand αqNEHVI (xcand ),                   (18)
that is, the averaged sample-level gradient is an unbiased estimate of the gradient of the true
acquisition function.

The proof of Proposition 1 closely follows the proof of Proposition 1 in Daulton et al. [11].

F         Error Bound on Sequential Greedy Approximation for NEHVI
If the acquisition function L(Xcand ) is a normalized (meaning L(∅) = 0), monotone, submodu-
lar (meaning that the increase in L(Xcand ) is non-increasing as elements are added to Xcand set
function), then the sequential greedy approximation L̂ of L enjoys regret of no more than 1e L∗ ,
          ∗
     L = maxXcand⊆X L(Xcand ) is the optima of L [18]. We have αqNEHVI (Xcand ) = L(Xcand ) =
where
EP αqEHVI (Xcand |P) . For a fixed, known P, Daulton et al. [11] showed that αqEHVI is submodu-
lar set function. In αqNEHVI , P is a stochastic, so αqEHVI (Xcand |P) is a stochastic submodular set
function. Because the expectation of a stochastic submodular function is submodular [1], αqNEHVI
is also submodular. Hence, the sequential greedy approximation of αqNEHVI enjoys regret of no
more than 1e αqNEHVI ∗ . Using the result from Wilson et al. [57], the MC-based approximation
                    PN                      
α̂qNEHVI (Xcand ) = t=1 HVI ft (Xcand )|Pt also enjoys the same regret bound because HVI is a
normalized submodular set function.8
      8
    Submodularity technically requires a finite search space X , whereas in BO X is typically an infinite set.
Nevertheless in similar scenarios, submodularity has been extended to infinite sets (e.g. Wilson et al. [57]).


                                                          20
G       Experiment Setup

G.1     Implementation / Code used in the experiments

Our implementations of qNEHVI, MESMO, PFES are available in the supplementary files and will
be open-sourced under MIT license upon publication. For PESMO, we use the open-source imple-
mentation in Spearmint (https://github.com/HIPS/Spearmint/tree/PESM), which is licensed
by Harvard. For DGEMO, MOEA/D-EGO, and TSEMO we use the open-source implementations
available at https://github.com/yunshengtian/DGEMO/tree/master under the MIT license.
For TS-TCH, qEHVI, and qNParEGO we use the open-source implementations in BoTorch, which
are available at https://github.com/pytorch/botorch) under the MIT license.
For the ABR problem, we use the Park simulator, which is available in open-source at https:
//github.com/park-project/park under the MIT license.


G.2     Algorithm Details

All methods are initialized with 2(d+1) points from a scrambled Sobol sequence. All MC acquisition
functions uses N = 128 quasi-MC samples [2]. All parallel algorithms using sequential greedy
optimization for selecting a batch of candidates points and the base samples are redrawn when
selecting candidate xi , i = 1, ..., q.
For EHVI-based methods, we leverage the two-step trick proposed by [59] to perform efficient
box decompositions; (i) we find the set of local lower bounds for the maximization problem using
Algorithm 5 from Klamroth et al. [31]9 , and then (ii) using the local lower bounds as a Pareto frontier
for the artificial minimization problem, we compute a box decomposition of the dominated space
using Algorithm 1 from Lacour et al. [34].
qEHVI uses the IEP for computing joint EHVI over a set of candidates and computes EHVI with
respect to the observed Pareto frontier. qEHVI-PM-CBD uses the Pareto frontier over the posterior
means at the previously evaluated points, providing some amount of regularization with respect to
the observed values. In addition, qEHVI-PM-CBD uses CBD rather than the IEP, which enables
scaling to large batch sizes. qNEHVI-1 uses 500 fourier basis functions.
For PFES and MESMO, we use 10 sampled (approximate) functions using RFFs (with 500 basis
functions) and optimize each function using 5000 iterations of NSGA-II [12] with a population size
of 50. For PFES, we partition the dominated space under each sampled Pareto frontier using the
algorithm proposed Lacour et al. [34], which is more efficient and yields fewer hyperrectangles than
the Quick Hypervolume algorithm used by the PFES authors [51]. For qNParEGO, we use a similar
pruning strategy to that in qNEHVI to only integrate over the function values of in-sample points
that have positive probability of being best with respect to the sampled scalarization. We use the
off-the-shelf implementation of qNParEGO in BoTorch [2], which does not use low-rank Cholesky
updates; however, we do note that qNPAR EGO would likely achieve lower wall times using more
efficient linear algebra tricks.
For DGEMO, TSEMO, and MOEA/D-EGO, we use the default settings provided in https://
github.com/yunshengtian/DGEMO/tree/master.


G.3     Problem Details

All benchmark problems are treated as maximization problems; the objectives for minimization
problems are multiplied by -1 to obtain an equivalent maximization problem.



    9
     More efficient methods for this step exist (e.g. Dächert et al. [15]), but Klamroth et al. [31] can easily
leverage vectorized operations and we find it to be efficient in our experiments.


                                                      21
BraninCurrin (M = 2, d = 2) The BraninCurrin problem involves optimizing two competing
functions used in BO benchmarks: Branin and Currin. The goal is minimize both:
                                      5.1      5                    1
            f (1) (x01 , x02 ) = (x2 − 2 x21 + x1 − r)2 + 10(1 −      ) cos(x1 ) + 10
                                      4π       π                   8π
                                                            3         2
                                                  
                                               1       2300x1 + 1900x1 + 2092x1 + 60
            f (2) (x1 , x2 ) = 1 − exp −
                                             (2x2 )      100x31 + 500x21 + 4x1 + 20
where x1 , x2 ∈ [0, 1], x01 = 15x1 − 5, and x02 = 15x2 .

DTLZ2 (M = 2, d = 6) DTLZ2 [13] is a standard problem from the multi-objective optimization
literature. The two objectives are
                                           π            π           π      
                 f1 (x) = (1 + g(xM )) cos x1 · · · cos xM −2 cos xM −1
                                           2             2            2
                                           π            π          π       
                 f2 (x) = (1 + g(xM )) cos x1 · · · cos xM −2 sin xM −1 ,
                                           2             2            2
where g(x) = xi ∈xM (xi − 0.5)2 , x ∈ [0, 1]d , and xM is the d − M + 1 elements of x.
                P


ZDT1 (M = 2, d = 4) ZDT1 is a benchmark problem from the multi-objective optimization
literature [66]. The goal is minimize the following two objectives
                                 f (1) (x) = x1
                                                          s               !
                                                              f (1) (x)
                                 f (2) (x) = g(x) 1 −
                                                                g(x)
                  9
                        Pd                                        d
where g(x) = 1 + d−1       i=2 xi and x = [x1 , ..., xd ] ∈ [0, 1] .


VehicleSafety (M = 3, d = 5) The 3 objectives are based on a response surface model that is fit
to data collected from a simulator and are given by [53]:
f1 (x) = 1640.2823 + 2.3573285x1 + 2.3220035x2 + 4.5688768x3 + 7.7213633x4 + 4.4559504x5
f2 (x) = 6.5856 + 1.15x1 − 1.0427x2 + 0.9738x3 + 0.8364x4 − 0.3695x1 x4 + 0.0861x1 x5
       + 0.3628x2 x4 + 0.1106x21 − 0.3437x23 + 0.1764x24
f3 (x) = −0.0551 + 0.0181x1 + 0.1024x2 + 0.0421x3 − 0.0073x1 x2 + 0.024x2 x3 − 0.0118x2 x4
      − 0.0204x3 x4 − 0.008x3 x5 − 0.0241x22 + 0.0109x24
where x ∈ [1, 3]5 . We seek to (1) minimize mass (a proxy for fuel efficiency), (2) minimize
acceleration (a proxy for passenger trauma) in a full-frontal collision, and (3) minimize the distance
that the toe-board intrudes into the cabin (a proxy for vehicle fragility) [53].

AutoML (M = 2, d = 8) . This experiment considers optimizing predictive performance and
latency of a deep neural networks (DNN). Practitioners and researchers across many domains use
DNNs for recommendation and recognition tasks in low-latency (e.g. on-device) environments
[49], where any increase in prediction time degrades the product experience [43]. Simultaneously,
researchers are considering increasingly larger architectures that improve predictive performance
[48]. Therefore, a firm may be interesting understanding the set of optimal trade-offs between
prediction latency and predictive performance. For a demonstration, we consider optimizing (d = 8)
hyperparameters of DNN (detailed in Table 1) to minimize out-of-sample prediction error and
minimize latency on the MNIST data set [35]. Using a small randomized test set leads to noisy
evaluations of predictive performance and latency measurements are often noisy due to unrelated
fluctuations in the testing environment. As in previous works, we minimize a logit transformation of
the prediction error and minimize a logarithm of the ratio between the latency of a proposed DNN and
the latency of the fastest DNN [20, 21, 25]. For each evaluation, we randomly partition the 60,000
examples from the MNIST training set into a set of 50,000 examples for training and 10,000 examples
for evaluation. We train each network for 8 epochs using SGD with momentum with mini-batches of
512 examples. The learning rate is decayed after every 30 mini-batch updates using the specified


                                                   22
                         PARAMETER                            S EARCH S PACE
                         L EARNING RATE (log10 SCALE )          [-5.0, -1.0]
                         L EARNING RATE DECAY MULTIPLIER        [0.01, 1.0]
                         D ROPOUT RATE                           [0.0, 0.7]
                         L1 REGULARIZATION                      [10−5 , 0.1]
                         L2 REGULARIZATION                      [10−5 , 0.1]
                         H IDDEN L AYER 1 S IZE                  [20, 500]
                         H IDDEN L AYER 2 S IZE                  [20, 500]
                         H IDDEN L AYER 3 S IZE                  [20, 500]

                         Table 1: The search space for the AutoML benchmark.


decay multiplier. We use randomized rounding on the integer parameters before evaluation. For
evaluating the performance of different BO methods, we estimate the noiseless objectives using the
mean objectives across 3 replications. DNNs are implemented in PyTorch using ReLU activations
and a softmax output layer. Latency measurements are taken on a CPU (2x Intel Xeon E5-2680 v4 @
2.40GHz).

CarSideImpact (M = 4, d = 7) A side-impact test is common practice under European
Enhanced Vehicle-Safety Committee to uphold vehicle safety standards [14]. In constrast with the
previous VehicleSafety problem where we considered a full-frontal collision, we now consider the
problem of tuning parameters controlling the structural design the of an automobile in the case of
a side-impact collision. This problem has been widely used in various works and has previously
used stochastic parameters to account for manufacturing error [14]. We use the recent 4-objective
version proposed by Tanabe & Ishibuchi [53] where the goal to minimize the weight of the vehicle,
passenger trauma (pubic force), and vehicle damage (the average velocity of the V-pillar). The fourth
objective is a combination of 10 other measures of the vehicle durability and passenger safety (see
[14] for details). The mathematical formulas for a response surface model fit to data collected from a
simulator are given below:


        f (1) (x) = 1.98 + 4.9x1 + 6.67x2 + 6.98x3 + 4.01x4 + 1.78x5 + 10−5 x6 + 2.73x7
        f (2) (x) = 4.72 − 0.5x4 − 0.19x2 x3
        f (3) (x) = 0.5(VMBP (x) + VFD (x))
                        10
                        X
        f (4) (x) = −         max[gi (x), 0]
                        i=1

where
   g1 (x) = 1 − 1.16 + 0.3717x2 x4 + 0.0092928x3
   g2 (x) = 0.32 − 0.261 + 0.0159x1 x2 + 0.06486x1 + 0.019x2 x7 − 0.0144x3 x5 − 0.0154464x6
   g3 (x) = 0.32 − 0.214 − 0.00817x5 + 0.045195x1 + 0.0135168x1 − 0.03099x2 x6
          + 0.018x2 x7 − 0.007176x3 − 0.023232x3 + 0.00364x5 x6 + 0.018x22
  g4 (x) = 0.32 − 0.74 + 0.61x2 + 0.031296x3 + 0.031872x7 − 0.227x22
  g5 (x) = 32 − 28.98 − 3.818x3 + 4.2x1 x2 − 1.27296x6 + 2.68065x7
  g6 (x) = 32 − 33.86 − 2.95x3 + 5.057x1 x2 + 3.795x2 + 3.4431x7 − 1.45728
  g7 (x) = 32 − 46.36 + 9.9x2 + 4.4505x1
  g8 (x) = 4 − f2 (x)
  g9 (x) = 9.9 − VMBP (x)
 g10 (x) = 15.7 − VFD (x)
VMBP (x) = 10.58 − 0.674x1 x2 − 0.67275x2
 VFD (x) = 16.45 − 0.489x3 x7 − 0.843x5 x6


                                                 23
. The search space is:

                                                 x1 ∈ [0.5, 1.5]
                                                 x2 ∈ [0.45, 1.35]
                                            x3 , x4 ∈ [0.5, 1.5]
                                                 x5 ∈ [0.875, 2.625]
                                            x6 , x7 ∈ [0.4, 1.2].

As in the VehicleSafety problem, we add zero-mean Gaussian noise to each objective with a standard
deviation of 1% the range of each objective.

Constrained BraninCurrin (M = 2, V = 2, d = 2) The constrained BraninCurrin problem
uses the same objectives as BraninCurrin, but adds the following disk constraint from [22]:

                            c(x01 , x02 ) = 50 − (x01 − 2.5)2 − (x02 − 7.5)2 ) ≥ 0

We add zero-mean Gaussian noise to objectives and the constraint slack observations with a standard
deviation of 5% of the range of each outcome.

SphereEllipsoidal (M = 2, d = 5) The SphereEllipsoidal problem is defined over x ∈ [−5, 5]d
and the objectives are given by [6]:
                                                    d
                                                                      (1)         (1)
                                                    X
                                     f (1) (x) =          (xi − xopt,i )2 + fopt
                                                    i=1
                                                    d
                                                    X           i−1         (2)
                                     f (2) (x) =          106 d−1 zi2 + fopt
                                                    i=1

where

                                zi = Tosz (δi )
                                              (2)
                                δi = xi − xopt,i
                                                                                      
                                                ˆ                     ˆ               ˆ
                         Tosz (δi ) = sign(δi )eδi +0.049 sin c1 (δi )δi +sin c2 (δi )δi

and
                                                
                                                    log(|δi |), if δi 6= 0
                                        δˆi =
                                                    0,          otherwise
                                                      
                                                          10, if δi ≥ 0
                                         c1 (δi ) =
                                                          5.5, otherwise
                                                      
                                                          7.9, if δi ≥ 0
                                         c2 (δi ) =
                                                          3.1, otherwise.
We set
                          (1)
                         xopt = [−0.0299, 2.1458, −3.2922, −2.9438, −1.5406]
                          (2)
                         xopt = [2.0611, −1.7655, −0.7754, 1.8775, −3.7657]
                          (1)
                         fopt = 203.71
                          (2)
                         fopt = 135.6

. We add zero-mean Gaussian noise to objectives and the constraint slack observations with a standard
deviation of 5% of the range of each outcome.


                                                           24
                  P ROBLEM                                  R EFERENCE P OINT
                  B RANIN C URRIN                             [-18.00, -6.00]
                  ZDT1                                         [-1.10, -1.10]
                  DTLZ2                                           [−1.10]M
                  V EHICLE S AFETY                      [-1698.55, -11.21, -0.29]
                  ABR                                       [150.00, -3500.00]
                  AUTO ML                                       [-2.45, 0.60]
                  C AR S IDE I MPACT                 [-45.49, -4.51, -13.34, -10.39]
                  C ONSTRAINED B RANIN C URRIN               [-80.00, -12.00]
                  S PHERE E LLIPSOIDAL                    [-261.00, −6.77 · 106 ]

                    Table 2: The reference points for each benchmark problem.


G.4   Evaluation Details

To compute the log hypervolume difference metric, we use NSGA-II to estimate the true Pareto
frontier (except for the ABR and AutoML problems, where evaluations are time-consuming and we
instead take the true Pareto frontier to be the Pareto frontier across the estimated objectives across all
methods and replications). Using this Pareto frontier, we compute the hypervolume dominated by the
true Pareto frontier in order to calculate the log hypervolume difference. For ZDT1, the hypervolume
dominated by the true Pareto frontier can be computed analytically. For Constrained BraninCurrin,
we evaluate the logarithm of the difference between the hypervolume dominated by the true feasible
Pareto frontier and the feasible in-sample Pareto frontier for each method.
For all problems, we selected the reference point based on the component-wise noiseless nadir
point fnadir (x) = minx∈X f (x) and the range of the Pareto frontier for each noiseless objective
using the common heuristic [56]: r = fnadir (x) − β ∗ (fideal (x) − fnadir (x)), where β = 0.1 and
fideal (x) = maxx∈X f (x).

H     Experiments
H.1   Wall Time Results

Tables 3 and 4 report the acquisition optimization wall times for each method. On all benchmark
problems except CarSideImpact, qNEHVI is faster to optimize than MESMO and PFES on a GPU.
The wall times for optimizing qNEHVI are competitive with those for qNParEGO on most benchmark
problems and batch sizes; on many problems, qNEHVI is often faster than qNParEGO. On the
problems VehicleSafety and CarSideImpact problems which have 3 and 4 objectives respectively,
we observed tractable wall times, even when generating q = 32 candidates. The wall time for 3 and
4 objective problems is larger primarily because the box decompositions are more time-consuming
to compute and result in more hyperrectangles as the number of objectives increases. Although,
qEHVI(-PM) is faster for q = 1 and q = 8 on many problems, it is unable to scale to large batch
sizes and ran out of memory for q = 8 on CarSideImpact due to the box decomposition having a
large number of hyperrectangles.




                                                   25
  CPU                       B RANIN C URRIN        ZDT1              ABR          V EHICLE S AFETY
  MESMO (q=1)                21.24 (±0.02)     19.76 (±0.03)     23.24 (±0.04)      28.39 (±0.07)
  PFES (q=1)                 22.86 (±0.05)     39.82 (±0.14)     43.03 (±0.12)      53.16 (±0.17)
  TS-TCH (q=1)               0.51 (±0.0)       0.48 (±0.0)       0.75 (±0.0)        0.67 (±0.0)
  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)          2.34 (±0.02)       3.7 (±0.02)      3.56 (±0.03)       7.82 (±0.05)
  qEHVI (q=1)                  0.58 (±0.0)      0.66 (±0.01)      2.98 (±0.02)       5.07 (±0.03)
  qNEHVI (q=1)               40.55 (±0.61)     35.66 (±0.47)     62.29 (±0.97)     120.43 (±1.25)
  qNPAR EGO (q=1)             3.19 (±0.05)      1.65 (±0.02)      6.94 (±0.06)       1.05 (±0.01)
  qPAR EGO (q=1)              0.58 (±0.01)       0.7 (±0.01)       2.5 (±0.03)       0.75 (±0.01)
  DGEMO (q=1)                65.28(±0.26)      76.99(±0.35)             NA                NA
  DGEMO (q=8)                65.44(±0.63)      86.97(±0.85)             NA                NA
  DGEMO (q=16)               66.44(±0.93)      86.06(±1.21)             NA                NA
  DGEMO (q=32)               66.66(±1.47)      84.66(±1.66)             NA                NA
  TSEMO (q=1)                 3.02(±0.01)       2.98(±0.01)             NA           3.61(±0.01)
  TSEMO (q=8)                 3.53(±0.01)       3.48(±0.01)             NA            7.45(±0.1)
  TSEMO (q=16)                3.77(±0.02)       3.74(±0.02)             NA          11.06(±0.28)
  TSEMO (q=32)                4.29(±0.03)       4.22(±0.02)             NA           16.3(±0.68)
  MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)           57.79(±0.17)       58.1(±0.17)             NA           71.0(±0.21)
  MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)           63.56(±0.18)      63.57(±0.17)             NA          77.56(±0.22)
  MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)           64.0(±0.18)      63.99(±0.19)             NA          78.03(±0.25)
  MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)          64.09(±0.26)       63.9(±0.24)             NA          77.77(±0.35)
  GPU                       B RANIN C URRIN        ZDT1               ABR         V EHICLE S AFETY
  MESMO (q=1)                  19.9 (±0.04)     19.92 (±0.04)    21.54 (±0.08)       24.57 (±0.09)
  PFES (q=1)                  21.68 (±0.07)      45.9 (±0.17)     43.3 (±0.13)       47.25 (±0.16)
  TS-TCH (q=1)                 0.88 (±0.01)      0.94 (±0.01)     1.08 (±0.01)        1.04 (±0.01)
  TS-TCH (q=8)                 1.85 (±0.03)      2.01 (±0.03)     2.99 (±0.04)        2.32 (±0.05)
  TS-TCH (q=16)                3.08 (±0.08)       3.29 (±0.1)     4.28 (±0.08)        3.54 (±0.09)
  TS-TCH (q=32)                5.25 (±0.15)      5.41 (±0.16)      7.23 (±0.2)        6.41 (±0.23)
  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)           2.17(±0.01)       2.12(±0.02)      3.59(±0.02)        51.11(±0.28)
  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)          39.56(±0.79)      30.83(±1.35)      36.2(±0.73)       716.03(±13.44)
  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=16)         82.91(±2.42)       67.3(±3.88)     70.02(±1.64)      1410.79(±41.72)
  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=32)        147.81(±6.85)     105.74(±8.55)    251.97(±12.69)    2570.95(±116.61)
  qEHVI (q=1)                  0.72 (±0.01)      0.99 (±0.02)     3.67 (±0.02)        3.96 (±0.05)
  qEHVI (q=8)                 18.12 (±1.03)     18.05 (±0.86)    40.55 (±0.58)       71.49 (±2.04)
  qNEHVI (q=1)                 6.15 (±0.06)      5.75 (±0.04)     7.72 (±0.09)       20.81 (±0.11)
  qNEHVI (q=8)                 48.19 (±1.2)     46.74 (±0.83)     49.7 (±0.79)      168.63 (±2.49)
  qNEHVI (q=16)              102.87 (±4.02)      95.6 (±2.62)    93.14 (±1.72)      289.02 (±5.82)
  qNEHVI (q=32)              177.56 (±7.81)    190.59 (±6.07)   181.97 (±4.77)     546.83 (±16.09)
  qNEHVI-1 (q=1)               0.32(±0.0)        0.24(±0.0)       0.56(±0.0)          0.92(±0.0)
  qNEHVI-1 (q=8)               2.43(±0.02)       2.11(±0.03)      4.55(±0.06)           7.1(±0.1)
  qNEHVI-1 (q=16)              4.97(±0.07)       3.73(±0.06)      8.73(±0.14)        14.77(±0.31)
  qNEHVI-1 (q=32)              9.03(±0.18)       8.18(±0.24)     17.15(±0.41)        34.99(±1.46)
  qNPAR EGO (q=1)              2.39 (±0.04)      1.84 (±0.04)     6.47 (±0.05)         0.9 (±0.02)
  qNPAR EGO (q=8)             47.05 (±1.74)     52.99 (±1.94)     74.72 (±1.9)       45.56 (±1.17)
  qNPAR EGO (q=16)           118.73 (±5.53)    116.68 (±5.51)   116.79 (±3.19)       91.3 (±3.83)
  qNPAR EGO (q=32)          306.17 (±17.81)   279.01 (±17.72)   240.56 (±6.44)     188.42 (±13.42)
  qPAR EGO (q=1)               0.81 (±0.02)      1.05 (±0.03)     4.39 (±0.05)        0.79 (±0.02)
  qPAR EGO (q=8)              13.01 (±0.53)      16.4 (±0.72)    31.02 (±0.81)       12.64 (±0.84)
  qPAR EGO (q=16)             34.34 (±2.12)     43.66 (±3.12)    66.85 (±3.13)       36.68 (±4.48)
  qPAR EGO (q=32)           139.73 (±25.22)    108.25 (±6.94)   122.37 (±6.12)     107.34 (±14.76)

Table 3: Acquisition function optimization wall time (including box decompositions) in seconds on a
CPU (2x Intel Xeon E5-2680 v4 @ 2.40GHz) and a Tesla V100 SXM2 GPU (16GB RAM). The mean
and two standard errors are reported. DGEMO, TSEMO, and MOEA/D-EGO are omitted for ABR
because they have package requirements that are not easily compatible with our distributed evaluation
pipeline and ABR evaluations are prohibitively slow without distributed evaluations. DGEMO is
omitted for VehicleSafety because the open-source implementation raises an consistently raises an
exception in the graph cutting algorithm with this problem.




                                                 26
H.2                                   Scaling to large batch sizes with CBD

In Figure 6, we provide results demonstrating the CBD approach enables scaling to large batch sizes,
even with 3 or 4 objectives, whereas the IEP wall times grow exponentially with the batch size and
the IEP overflows GPU memory even with modest batch sizes.

                                                        3 Objectives                                        4 Objectives
 Acquisition Optimization Time (s)




                                     800
                                                                                          2000

                                     600
                                                                                          1500

                                     400                                                  1000

                                     200                                                   500

                                      0                                                     0
                                           0       25       50          75     100               0     25       50         75   100
                                                             q                                                   q
                                               CBD (CPU)               CBD (GPU)           IEP (CPU)         IEP (GPU)          OOM



Figure 6: Acquisition optimization wall time under a sequential greedy approximation using L-
BFGS-B for three and four objectives. CBD enables scaling to much larger batch sizes q than
using the inclusion-exclusion principle (IEP) and avoids running out-of-memory (OOM) on a GPU.
Independent GPs are used for each outcome and are initialized with 20 points from the Pareto frontier
of the 6-dimensional DTLZ2 problem [13] with 3 objectives (left) and 4 objectives (right). Wall times
were measured on a Tesla V100 SXM2 GPU (16GB GPU RAM) and a Intel Xeon Gold 6138 CPU
@ 2GHz CPU (251GB RAM).



H.3                                   Additional Empirical Results

The additional optimization performance results in the appendix demonstrate that qNEHVI-based
algorithms are consistently the top performer. The only case where qNEHVI(-1) is outperformed
is in the sequential setting on the CarSideImpact problem in Figure 9(a), where qEHVI performs
best However, as show in Figure 9(b) and Figure 9(c), qNEHVI enables scaling to large batch sizes,
whereas qEHVI runs out of memory on a GPU for q = 8. Therefore, in a practical setting where
vehicles are manufactured and test in parallel, qNEHVI would be the best choice.
Figure 11 shows that qNEHVI achieves solid performance anytime throughout the learning curve in
the sequential setting, and Figure 13 shows that qNEHVI-based variants consistently achieves the
best performance for various q with a fixed budget of 224 function evaluations. Although, qNEHVI-1
does not consistently perform better than qNEHVI, qNEHVI-1 achieves very little degradation of
sample complexity as the batch size q increases.

H.4                                   Better performance from qEHVI with a larger batch size

Interestingly, on many test problems qEHVI performs better with q = 8 than q = 1. In the
case of BraninCurrin and ConstrainedBraninCurrin, qParEGO also improves as q increases. Since
this phenomenon is not observed with the noisy acquisition functions (qNEHVI, qNParEGO), we
hypothesize that it may be the case that sequential data collection results in a difficult to optimize
acquisition surface and that integrating over the in-sample points leads to a smoother acquisition
surface that results in improved sequential optimization. The acquisition functions that do not account
for noise may be misled by the noise in sequential setting, but using a larger batch size (within limits)
may help avoid the issue of not properly accounting for noise.


                                                                                     27
H.5                                  Performance over Higher Dimensional Spaces

qNEHVI-1 relies on approximate GP sample paths (RFFs). Although we find that qNEHVI-1
performs very well on many low-dimensional problems (see Figure 4), Figures 8 and 7 show that
qNEHVI-1 does not perform as well a qNEHVI on higher dimensional problems. We hypothesize
that the RFF approximation degrades in higher dimensional search spaces leading to poor optimization
performance relative qNEHVI, which uses exact GP samples. It is likely that using 500 Fourier basis
functions leads to large approximation error on high dimensional search spaces. Further study is
needed to examine whether robust performance can be achieved by increasing the number of basis
functions. As shown in Figure 7, qNEHVI consistently outperforms all tested methods regardless of
the dimension of the design space.

                                                 d=5                                      d=10                                             d=15                                        d=20
                             0.40

                             0.35

                             0.30
   Hypervolume




                             0.25

                             0.20

                             0.15
                                                            qNEHVI
                             0.10
                                                            qNParEGO
                             0.05                           TS-TCH
                                                            qNEHVI-1
                             0.00
                                     0   50    100     150    200              0   50    100     150    200                0       50    100     150    200                0   50    100     150    200
                                         Function Evaluations                      Function Evaluations                            Function Evaluations                        Function Evaluations



Figure 7: Sequential optimization performance 2-objective DTLZ2 with σ = 5% problems as the
dimension of the search space increases from d = 5 to d = 20.


                                                d=5                                       d=10                                             d=15                                        d=20
                             -0.85                                     -0.55                                                                                       -0.37
                                                                                                                   -0.38
                             -0.90                                     -0.57
Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                                                                   -0.40                                           -0.38
                             -0.95                                     -0.60
                                                                                                                   -0.42
                             -1.00                                     -0.62                                                                                       -0.39
                                                                                                                   -0.44
                                                                       -0.65
                             -1.05                                                                                 -0.46                                           -0.40
                                                                       -0.68
                             -1.10                                                                                 -0.48
                                                                       -0.70                                                                                       -0.41
                             -1.15                                                                                 -0.50
                                                                       -0.72
                             -1.20                                                                                 -0.52                                           -0.42
                                                                       -0.75
                             -1.25                                                                                 -0.54
                                     1      8          16         32           1      8          16           32           1           8          16          32           1       8          16          32
                                                 q                                         q                                                q                                           q
                                                                                                      qNEHVI                   qNEHVI-1



Figure 8: A comparison of the final optimization performance of qNEHVI-1, a single sample path
approximation of qNEHVI, and qNEHVI on 2-objective DTLZ2 problems with input dimensions
between 5 and 20 under different batch sizes q. qNEHVI-1 is very effective on lower dimensional
problems, but does not perform as well as qNEHVI on higher dimensional problems.




                                                                                                              28
 CPU                       DTLZ2           AUTO ML        C AR S IDE I MPACT   C ONSTRAINED B RANIN C URRIN
 MESMO (q=1)             27.79(±0.07)    37.86 (±0.08)      33.31 (±0.06)                    NA
 PFES (q=1)              69.85(±0.21)   101.24 (±0.29)     102.55 (±0.34)                    NA
 TS-TCH (q=1)            0.72(±0.0)      0.93 (±0.0)       1.27 (±0.01)                      NA
 qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)       3.98(±0.02)     5.76 (±0.05)      83.14 (±0.74)              10.27 (±0.06)
 qEHVI (q=1)              2.74(±0.01)     5.05 (±0.04)       96.19 (±0.9)               3.26 (±0.05)
 qNEHVI (q=1)            54.04(±0.67)    22.71 (±0.48)     541.13 (±6.83)             267.67 (±4.09)
 qNPAR EGO (q=1)          21.39(±0.2)     5.6 (±0.07)        3.38 (±0.05)              12.05 (±0.17)
 qPAR EGO (q=1)           2.33(±0.02)     3.06 (±0.03)       1.91 (±0.02)             1.56 (±0.03)
 DGEMO (q=1)             84.48(±0.64)          NA                 NA                         NA
 DGEMO (q=8)             65.99(±0.51)          NA                 NA                         NA
 DGEMO (q=16)            69.57(±0.59)          NA                 NA                         NA
 DGEMO (q=32)             72.82(±0.8)          NA                 NA                         NA
 TSEMO (q=1)               3.1(±0.01)          NA            14.91(±0.16)                    NA
 TSEMO (q=8)              3.58(±0.01)          NA           100.78(±3.75)                    NA
 TSEMO (q=16)             3.87(±0.02)          NA           188.44(±9.88)                    NA
 TSEMO (q=32)             4.55(±0.03)          NA          326.51(±24.03)                    NA
 MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)         59.3(±0.18)          NA            79.87(±0.16)                    NA
 MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)         65.5(±0.18)          NA            85.34(±0.21)                    NA
 MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)        65.81(±0.2)          NA             85.18(±0.3)                    NA
 MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)        65.44(±0.3)          NA             84.8(±0.39)                    NA
 GPU                       DTLZ2           AUTO ML        C AR S IDE I MPACT   C ONSTRAINED B RANIN C URRIN
 MESMO (q=1)             17.01(±0.13)      28.83 (±0.2)       26.0 (±0.06)                   NA
 PFES (q=1)              46.63(±0.51)      85.73 (±0.4)      55.41 (±0.16)                   NA
 TS-TCH (q=1)             0.84(±0.01)      1.49 (±0.01)       2.17 (±0.01)                   NA
 TS-TCH (q=8)             3.71(±0.07)       3.64 (±0.1)       4.15 (±0.07)                   NA
 TS-TCH (q=16)            5.85(±0.14)      6.16 (±0.21)        6.9 (±0.19)                   NA
 TS-TCH (q=32)             9.33(±0.3)      9.47 (±0.47)        10.2 (±0.4)                   NA
 qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)       4.29(±0.01)      5.26(±0.05)        52.7(±0.41)              15.89(±0.08)
 qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)      40.85(±0.41)      39.55(±0.8)      460.18(±9.76)             135.89(±1.43)
 qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=16)     93.39(±1.87)      71.8(±1.81)     866.12(±26.46)             314.42(±5.44)
 qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=32)     194.12(±5.6)    143.83(±4.88)     1682.28(±72.5)            823.01(±24.48)
 qEHVI (q=1)              2.93(±0.02)       4.67 (±0.1)       9.63 (±0.05)              5.69 (±0.11)
 qEHVI (q=8)             39.64(±0.57)    104.48 (±1.34)           OOM                  68.95 (±2.57)
 qNEHVI (q=1)             4.91(±0.01)       7.95 (±0.1)      82.66 (±0.63)             20.47 (±0.12)
 qNEHVI (q=8)            39.96(±0.35)     67.28 (±1.87)    683.06 (±13.82)            168.04 (±1.85)
 qNEHVI (q=16)           74.41(±0.63)    145.66 (±4.45)    1289.4 (±36.81)            362.15 (±9.08)
 qNEHVI (q=32)          142.18(±1.59)   247.92 (±11.93)   2480.41 (±102.38)          654.66 (±23.48)
 qNEHVI-1 (q=1)          0.42(±0.0)        0.53(±0.0)       2.11(±0.01)               1.57(±0.02)
 qNEHVI-1 (q=8)           3.26(±0.03)      4.55(±0.09)        16.88(±0.2)              11.01(±0.16)
 qNEHVI-1 (q=16)          6.34(±0.04)      7.22(±0.19)       34.78(±0.63)               20.56(±0.4)
 qNEHVI-1 (q=32)         14.85(±0.45)     12.66(±0.54)       67.27(±1.61)                40.6(±1.1)
 qNPAR EGO (q=1)          6.41(±0.03)       4.86 (±0.1)       3.25 (±0.06)              6.17 (±0.07)
 qNPAR EGO (q=8)         57.17(±0.43)     48.62 (±1.18)      30.65 (±0.92)             38.66 (±0.95)
 qNPAR EGO (q=16)        114.91(±1.3)    122.09 (±3.5)       81.04 (±3.44)             84.27 (±3.04)
 qNPAR EGO (q=32)       263.56(±4.03)    275.41 (±8.29)     219.98 (±9.75)             199.6 (±9.68)
 qPAR EGO (q=1)           2.62(±0.03)      3.31 (±0.07)       3.03 (±0.06)              2.83 (±0.08)
 qPAR EGO (q=8)          25.75(±0.66)     33.84 (±1.76)       22.0 (±0.88)             20.28 (±1.18)
 qPAR EGO (q=16)         67.89(±2.27)      77.25 (±3.9)      56.09 (±3.09)             50.06 (±3.84)
 qPAR EGO (q=32)        159.98(±7.41)   217.55 (±19.15)     139.25 (±9.41)           135.39 (±13.04)


Table 4: Acquisition function optimization wall time (including box decompositions) in seconds on a
CPU (2x Intel Xeon E5-2680 v4 @ 2.40GHz) and a Tesla V100 SXM2 GPU (16GB RAM). The mean
and two standard errors are reported. DGEMO, TSEMO, MOEA/D-EGO are omitted for AutoML
because they have package requirements that are not easily compatible with our distributed training
and evaluation pipeline, and they are omitted for ConstrainedBraninCurrin because they do not support
constraints in the open-source implementation at https://github.com/yunshengtian/DGEMO/
tree/master. DGEMO is omitted on CarSideImpact because the open-source implementation does
not support more than 3 objectives.




                                                  29
                                                                                                                                 AutoML                                           CarSideImpact                                      ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                            ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00
                                                                                                                                                           2.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.40
                                                                      Log Hypervolume Difference

                                                                                                   0.20
                                                                                                                                                           2.20                                                      2.20                                                      -0.50
                                                                                                   0.10                                                                                                              2.00
                                                                                                                                                           2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.80                                                      -1.00
                                                                                                   0.00                                                    1.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.60
                                                                                                                                                           1.60                                                                                                                -1.50
                                                                                                   -0.10                                                                                                             1.40

                                                                                                                                                           1.40                                                      1.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -2.00
                                                                                                   -0.20                                                                                                             1.00
                                                                                                                                                           1.20
                                                                                                            0         50         100      150     200             0          50         100         150     200             0         50      100       150        200                  0        50    100      150      200
                                                                                                                      Function Evaluations                                   Function Evaluations                                     Function Evaluations                                       Function Evaluations

                                                                                                                                                DGEMO             MOEA/D-EGO                              PFES                  TSEMO                  qEHVI-PM-CBD                         qNEHVI-1
                                                                                                                                                MESMO             PESMO                                   TS-TCH                qEHVI                  qNEHVI                               qNParEGO


                                                                                                                  (a) Sequential Optimization performance on additional benchmark problems.

                                                                                                      BraninCurrin                                                                DTLZ2                                                          VehicleSafety                                                             ABR
                             1.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.80
                                                                                                                                                  -0.50
Log Hypervolume Difference




                             1.50                                                                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                                  -0.60                                                                                                                                         5.60
                             1.25
                                                                                                                                                  -0.70                                                                 0.50                                                                    5.40
                             1.00
                                                                                                                                                  -0.80
                             0.75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.20
                                                                                                                                                  -0.90                                                                 0.00
                             0.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.00
                             0.25                                                                                                                 -1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -0.50                                                                   4.80
                             0.00                                                                                                                 -1.10

                                                             0                   50                         100            150         200                 0          50          100          150         200                   0          50         100         150         200                     0         50        100     150    200
                                                                                                     Batch Iteration                                                        Batch Iteration                                                      Batch Iteration                                                       Batch Iteration

                                                                                                   DGEMO (q=1)                                  MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)                                    TS-TCH (q=1)                        TSEMO (q=1)                              qNEHVI (q=1)                            qNParEGO (q=1)
                                                                                                   DGEMO (q=16)                                 MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)                                   TS-TCH (q=16)                       TSEMO (q=16)                             qNEHVI (q=16)                           qNParEGO (q=16)
                                                                                                   DGEMO (q=32)                                 MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)                                   TS-TCH (q=32)                       TSEMO (q=32)                             qNEHVI (q=32)                           qNParEGO (q=32)
                                                                                                   DGEMO (q=8)                                  MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)                                    TS-TCH (q=8)                        TSEMO (q=8)                              qNEHVI (q=8)                            qNParEGO (q=8)


                                                                                                                                        (b) Parallel optimization performance vs batch iterations (1/2).

                                                                                                                AutoML                                                     CarSideImpact                                             ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                                     ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00
                                                                                                                                                    2.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.40
                             Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                          0.20                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -0.25
                                                                                                                                                    2.20                                                            2.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -0.50
                                                          0.10                                                                                                                                                      2.00
                                                                                                                                                    2.00                                                                                                                               -0.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -1.00
                                                          0.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.80                                                            1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -1.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.40
                                                          -0.10                                                                                     1.60                                                                                                                               -1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -1.75
                                                          -0.20                                                                                     1.40                                                            1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -2.00
                                                                  0                                  50         100          150        200                0          50          100         150         200               0          50        100         150         200                    0      50        100      150      200
                                                                                                           Batch Iteration                                                 Batch Iteration                                                  Batch Iteration                                                  Batch Iteration

                                                          DGEMO (q=1)                                                       MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)                               TS-TCH (q=1)                           TSEMO (q=1)                       TSEMO (q=8)                                qNEHVI (q=32)                     qNParEGO (q=16)
                                                          DGEMO (q=16)                                                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)                              TS-TCH (q=16)                          TSEMO (q=16)                      qNEHVI (q=1)                               qNEHVI (q=8)                      qNParEGO (q=32)
                                                          DGEMO (q=32)                                                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)                              TS-TCH (q=32)                          TSEMO (q=32)                      qNEHVI (q=16)                              qNParEGO (q=1)                    qNParEGO (q=8)
                                                          DGEMO (q=8)                                                       MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)                               TS-TCH (q=8)


                                                                                                                                        (c) Parallel optimization performance vs batch iterations (2/2).

Figure 9: Optimization performance on additional problems. (a) Sequential optimization performance.
(b) and (c) Optimization performance of batch acquisition functions using various q over the number
of BO iterations. To improve readability, we omit qEHVI(-PM) in this figure because the IEP cannot
scale beyond q = 8 because of the exponential time and space complexity (running it on a GPU runs
out of memory and running it on a CPU results in prohibitively slow wall times). See Figure 10 for
results using qEHVI(-PM).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30
                                                                           BraninCurrin                                                    DTLZ2                                                  VehicleSafety                                                     ABR
                             1.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.80
                                                                                                                 -0.50
Log Hypervolume Difference




                             1.50                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                 -0.60                                                                                                                    5.60
                             1.25
                                                                                                                 -0.70                                                 0.50                                                               5.40
                             1.00

                             0.75                                                                                -0.80
                                                                                                                                                                       0.00                                                               5.20
                             0.50                                                                                -0.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.00
                             0.25                                                                                -1.00                                                 -0.50

                             0.00                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.80
                                                                                                                 -1.10
                                                                                                                                                                       -1.00
                             -0.25
                                                              0       50       100       150         200                   0       50       100     150    200                     0         50         100         150     200                  0        50        100    150    200
                                                                           Batch Iteration                                              Batch Iteration                                           Batch Iteration                                               Batch Iteration

                                                                                                                               qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)                 qNEHVI (q=32)                               qNEHVI-1 (q=16)
                                                                                                                               qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)                 qNEHVI (q=8)                                qNEHVI-1 (q=32)
                                                                                                                               qNEHVI (q=1)                       qNEHVI-1 (q=1)                              qNEHVI-1 (q=8)
                                                                                                                               qNEHVI (q=16)


                                                                                                                                                                 (a)

                                                                                     AutoML                                              CarSideImpact                                 ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                            ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00
                                                                                                                    2.40
                                                                                                                                                                   2.40
                                 Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                              0.20
                                                                                                                    2.20                                           2.20                                                           -0.50
                                                              0.10                                                                                                 2.00
                                                                                                                    2.00
                                                                                                                                                                   1.80                                                           -1.00
                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                    1.80                                           1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -1.50
                                                              -0.10                                                                                                1.40
                                                                                                                    1.60
                                                                                                                                                                   1.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -2.00
                                                              -0.20                                                 1.40
                                                                                                                                                                   1.00

                                                                      0      50       100      150         200                 0    50       100    150    200                 0        50        100         150     200                 0      50       100      150    200
                                                                                  Batch Iteration                                        Batch Iteration                                     Batch Iteration                                          Batch Iteration


                                                                                                            qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)                     qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)                    qNEHVI (q=32)                       qNEHVI-1 (q=16)
                                                                                                            qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=16)                    qNEHVI (q=1)                          qNEHVI (q=8)                        qNEHVI-1 (q=32)
                                                                                                            qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=32)                    qNEHVI (q=16)                         qNEHVI-1 (q=1)                      qNEHVI-1 (q=8)


                                                                                                                                                                 (b)

Figure 10: Optimization performance of qNEHVI under various batch sizes q vs qEHVI(-PM).
Note that using the IEP, qEHVI(-PM) cannot scale beyond q = 8 because of the exponential time
and space complexity (running it on a GPU runs out of memory and running it on a CPU results in
prohibitively slow wall times).




                                                                                                                                                                 31
                                                                                  BraninCurrin                                                  DTLZ2                                                     VehicleSafety                                                     ABR
                             1.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.80
                                                                                                                      -0.50
Log Hypervolume Difference




                             1.50                                                                                                                                             1.00
                                                                                                                      -0.60                                                                                                                           5.60
                             1.25
                                                                                                                      -0.70                                                   0.50                                                                    5.40
                             1.00
                                                                                                                      -0.80
                             0.75                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.20
                                                                                                                      -0.90                                                   0.00
                             0.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.00
                             0.25                                                                                     -1.00
                                                                                                                                                                              -0.50                                                                   4.80
                             0.00                                                                                     -1.10

                                                                 0          50       100     150          200                 0       50        100     150       200                     0          50         100         150         200                  0      50     100       150   200
                                                                            Function Evaluations                                      Function Evaluations                                           Function Evaluations                                           Function Evaluations

                                                                                DGEMO (q=1)                       MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)                        TS-TCH (q=1)                         TSEMO (q=1)                               qNEHVI (q=1)                    qNParEGO (q=1)
                                                                                DGEMO (q=16)                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)                       TS-TCH (q=16)                        TSEMO (q=16)                              qNEHVI (q=16)                   qNParEGO (q=16)
                                                                                DGEMO (q=32)                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)                       TS-TCH (q=32)                        TSEMO (q=32)                              qNEHVI (q=32)                   qNParEGO (q=32)
                                                                                DGEMO (q=8)                       MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)                        TS-TCH (q=8)                         TSEMO (q=8)                               qNEHVI (q=8)                    qNParEGO (q=8)


                                                                                                                                                                        (a)

                                                                                           AutoML                                            CarSideImpact                                    ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                               ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                          2.40
                                                                                                                                                                          2.40
                                    Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                     0.20                                                                                                                                                                     -0.25
                                                                                                                          2.20                                            2.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -0.50
                                                                     0.10                                                                                                 2.00
                                                                                                                          2.00                                                                                                                -0.75
                                                                                                                                                                          1.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.00
                                                                     0.00
                                                                                                                          1.80                                            1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.25
                                                                                                                                                                          1.40
                                                                 -0.10                                                    1.60                                                                                                                -1.50
                                                                                                                                                                          1.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.75
                                                                 -0.20                                                    1.40                                            1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -2.00
                                                                            0       50     100      150         200               0    50        100     150      200                 0         50        100         150         200                 0      50    100     150      200
                                                                                    Function Evaluations                                   Function Evaluations                                 Function Evaluations                                         Function Evaluations

                                                                                     DGEMO (q=1)                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=1)                    TS-TCH (q=1)                        TSEMO (q=1)                          qNEHVI (q=1)                   qNParEGO (q=1)
                                                                                     DGEMO (q=16)                     MOEA/D-EGO (q=16)                   TS-TCH (q=16)                       TSEMO (q=16)                         qNEHVI (q=16)                  qNParEGO (q=16)
                                                                                     DGEMO (q=32)                     MOEA/D-EGO (q=32)                   TS-TCH (q=32)                       TSEMO (q=32)                         qNEHVI (q=32)                  qNParEGO (q=32)
                                                                                     DGEMO (q=8)                      MOEA/D-EGO (q=8)                    TS-TCH (q=8)                        TSEMO (q=8)                          qNEHVI (q=8)                   qNParEGO (q=8)


                                                                                                                                                                        (b)

Figure 11: Anytime optimization performance of batch acquisition functions using various q over the
number of function evaluations. To improve readability, we omit qEHVI(-PM) in this figure because
the IEP cannot scale beyond q = 8 because of the exponential time and space complexity (running it
on a GPU runs out of memory and running it on a CPU results in prohibitively slow wall times).




                                                                                                                                                                        32
                                                                                                      BraninCurrin                                                                  DTLZ2                                                         VehicleSafety                                                       ABR
                             1.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.80
                                                                                                                                                   -0.50
Log Hypervolume Difference



                             1.50                                                                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                                   -0.60                                                                                                                                     5.60
                             1.25
                                                                                                                                                   -0.70                                                                0.50                                                                 5.40
                             1.00

                             0.75                                                                                                                  -0.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00                                                                 5.20
                             0.50                                                                                                                  -0.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.00
                             0.25                                                                                                                  -1.00                                                               -0.50

                             0.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.80
                                                                                                                                                   -1.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -1.00
                             -0.25
                                                              0                       50                    100        150          200                      0              50       100        150       200                      0         50         100         150        200                  0         50     100         150   200
                                                                                         Function Evaluations                                                               Function Evaluations                                             Function Evaluations                                             Function Evaluations

                                                                                                                                                                  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)                                 qNEHVI (q=32)                             qNEHVI-1 (q=16)
                                                                                                                                                                  qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)                                 qNEHVI (q=8)                              qNEHVI-1 (q=32)
                                                                                                                                                                  qNEHVI (q=1)                                       qNEHVI-1 (q=1)                            qNEHVI-1 (q=8)
                                                                                                                                                                  qNEHVI (q=16)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (a)

                                                                                                                   AutoML                                                         CarSideImpact                                        ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                                ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00
                                                                                                                                                      2.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.40
                                 Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                              0.20
                                                                                                                                                      2.20                                                            2.20                                                           -0.50
                                                              0.10                                                                                                                                                    2.00
                                                                                                                                                      2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.80                                                           -1.00
                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                                                      1.80                                                            1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -1.50
                                                              -0.10                                                                                                                                                   1.40
                                                                                                                                                      1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -2.00
                                                              -0.20                                                                                   1.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.00

                                                                          0                                50       100       150         200                     0          50       100       150      200                   0        50        100         150     200                    0      50        100    150        200
                                                                                                                Batch Iteration                                                   Batch Iteration                                            Batch Iteration                                             Batch Iteration


                                                                                                                                               qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=1)                           qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=8)                            qNEHVI (q=32)                         qNEHVI-1 (q=16)
                                                                                                                                               qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=16)                          qNEHVI (q=1)                                  qNEHVI (q=8)                          qNEHVI-1 (q=32)
                                                                                                                                               qEHVI-PM-CBD (q=32)                          qNEHVI (q=16)                                 qNEHVI-1 (q=1)                        qNEHVI-1 (q=8)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                (b)

Figure 12: Anytime optimization performance of batch EHVI-based acquisition functions using
various q over the number of function evaluations.




                                                                                                                              AutoML                                                 CarSideImpact                                     ConstrainedBraninCurrin                                           ZDT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.60                                                     -0.50
                                                                                                                                                                 2.20
                                                                      Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.50                                                     -0.75
                                                                                                   0.10
                                                                                                                                                                 2.00                                                  1.40                                                     -1.00

                                                                                                   0.00                                                                                                                1.30                                                     -1.25
                                                                                                                                                                 1.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.20                                                     -1.50
                                                                                                   -0.10
                                                                                                                                                                 1.60                                                  1.10                                                     -1.75

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.00                                                     -2.00
                                                                                                   -0.20
                                                                                                                                                                 1.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.90                                                     -2.25

                                                                                                            1             8               16         32                 1             8             16          32             1             8            16              32            1           8           16         32
                                                                                                                                q                                                           q                                                      q                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                        DGEMO                            TS-TCH                qEHVI-PM-CBD                         qNEHVI-1
                                                                                                                                                                        MOEA/D-EGO                       TSEMO                 qNEHVI                               qNParEGO




Figure 13: Final log hypervolume difference with various q under a budget of 224 function evaluations.
Smaller log hypervolume differences are better.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                33
H.6                                  Optimization Performance under Increasing Noise Levels

Figure 14 shows the sequential optimization performance of qNEHVI and qNEHVI-1 relative
to qEHVI and qNParEGO under increasing noise levels. qNEHVI-1 achieves the best final hy-
pervolume when the noise standard deviation σ is less than 15% of the range of each objective,
but performs worse than qNEHVI earlier in the optimization. qNEHVI is the top performer in
high-noise environments. We observe that all methods degrade as the noise level increases, however
qNEHVI consistently exhibits excellent performance relative to other methods and only qNEHVI-1
is competitive and only in the low-noise regime.

                                                 = 1%                            = 2%                                 = 3%                            = 4%
                             -0.50                       qNEHVI
Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                         qEHVI
                             -0.75
                                                         qNEHVI-1
                             -1.00                       qNParEGO

                             -1.25

                             -1.50

                             -1.75

                             -2.00



                                                 = 5%                           = 10%                                = 15%                           = 20%
                             -0.50
Log Hypervolume Difference




                             -0.75

                             -1.00

                             -1.25

                             -1.50

                             -1.75

                             -2.00

                                     0   100    200     300    400   0   100    200     300    400        0   100    200     300    400   0   100    200     300    400
                                          Function Evaluations            Function Evaluations                 Function Evaluations            Function Evaluations



Figure 14: Sequential optimization performance under increasing noise levels on a DTLZ2 problem
(d = 6, M = 2). σ is the noise standard deviation, which we define as a percentage of the range
of each objective over the entire search space. A noise level of 20% is very high; for comparison,
previous work on noisy MOBO has only considered noise levels of 1% [25].


H.7                                  Optimization Performance on Noiseless Benchmarks

We include a comparison of optimization performance on noiseless benchmarks. Figure 15 shows
that qNEHVI performs competitively with qEHVI(-PM-CBD) and outperforms DGEMO, TS-TCH
and qNParEGO across all benchmark problems. qNEHVI-1 is also a top performer on noiseless
problems and both qNEHVI and qNEHVI-1 show little degradation in performance with increasing
levels of parallelism.




                                                                                                     34
                                                                               BraninCurrin                                                                           DTLZ2                                                        ZDT1                                                      VehicleSafety
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                                               -0.50




Log Hypervolume Difference
                             1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                               -0.75                                                                                    -0.50
                             1.00                                                                              -1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -1.00
                                                                                                               -1.25
                             0.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00
                                                                                                               -1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -1.50
                             0.00                                                                              -1.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -0.50
                                                                                                               -2.00                                                                                    -2.00
                             -0.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -1.00
                                                                                                               -2.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -2.50
                                                              0           50     100     150        200                   0         50                                100           150    200                      0       50     100        150     200                   0       50          100    150        200
                                                                          Function Evaluations                                      Function Evaluations                                                                    Function Evaluations                                    Function Evaluations

                                                                                                                              DGEMO                                                 qEHVI                                 qNEHVI                    qNParEGO
                                                                                                                              TS-TCH                                                qEHVI-PM-CBD                          qNEHVI-1


                                                                                                                                                                                                     (a)

                                                                                   BraninCurrin                                                                       DTLZ2                                                      ZDT1                                           VehicleSafety
                                                              1.25
                                                                                                                  -0.80                                                                                                                                     0.75
                                                              1.00                                                                                                                                     -0.75
                                 Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                                                                  -1.00                                                                                                                                     0.50
                                                              0.75                                                                                                                                     -1.00
                                                                                                                  -1.20                                                                                                                                     0.25
                                                              0.50                                                                                                                                     -1.25
                                                                                                                  -1.40                                                                                                                                     0.00
                                                              0.25                                                                                                                                     -1.50
                                                                                                                  -1.60                                                                                                                                     -0.25
                                                              0.00                                                                                                                                     -1.75
                                                                                                                  -1.80                                                                                                                                     -0.50
                                                              -0.25                                                                                                                                    -2.00
                                                                                                                  -2.00                                                                                                                                     -0.75
                                                              -0.50                                                                                                                                    -2.25
                                                                                                                  -2.20                                                                                                                                     -1.00
                                                              -0.75                                                                                                                                    -2.50
                                                                                                                  -2.40                                                                                                                                     -1.25
                                                                      1            8           16         32                  1                                   8                 16          32              1            8           16          32              1          8               16           32
                                                                                        q                                                                                   q                                                      q                                                     q
                                                                                                                                  DGEMO                                             qEHVI-PM-CBD                        qNEHVI-1              qNParEGO
                                                                                                                                  TS-TCH                                            qNEHVI


                                                                                                                                                                                                 (b)

                              Figure 15: Sequential (a) and parallel (b) optimization Performance on noiseless benchmarks.



H.8                                                           Performance of qNEHVI-1 on 5-Objective Optimization

We demonstrate that qNEHVI-1 enables scaling to 5-objective problems. To our knowledge, no
previous methods leveraging EHVI or HVI (e.g. DGEMO, TSEMO) considers 5-objective problems
because of the super-polynomial complexity of the hypervolume indicator. Nevertheless, we show
that using CBD and a single sample path approximation, qNEHVI-1 can be used for 5-objective opti-
mization. As shown in Figure 16, qNEHVI-1 outperforms qNParEGO and Sobol search. qNEHVI-1
takes on average 73.53 seconds (with an SEM of 1.74 seconds) to generate each candidate, whereas
qNParEGO takes 11.37 seconds (with an SEM of 0.97 seconds).


                                                                                                                                                                                                     DTLZ2-5

                                                                                                                                                                  0.00
                                                                                                                                     Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                                                                                                                  -0.10

                                                                                                                                                                  -0.20

                                                                                                                                                                  -0.30

                                                                                                                                                                  -0.40

                                                                                                                                                                  -0.50

                                                                                                                                                                  -0.60

                                                                                                                                                                                0         100         200           300      400
                                                                                                                                                                                          Function Evaluations

                                                                                                                                                                                    Sobol                                 qNParEGO
                                                                                                                                                                                    qNEHVI-1



                             Figure 16: Optimization performance on a 5-objective DTLZ2 problem (d = 6) with σ = 5%.




                                                                                                                                                                                                 35
H.9                 Performance compared against a Multi-Objective CMA-ES

CMA-ES is an evolutionary strategy that is a strong method in single objective optimization, and many
works have proposed extensions of CMA-ES to the multi-objective setting [27, 55]. We compare
qNEHVI against the COMO-CMA-ES algorithm, which has been shown to outperform MO-CMA-
ES on a variety of problems [55].10 . We evaluate performance on the SphereEllipsoidal function from
Bi-objective Black-Box Optimization Benchmarking Test Suite [6], and we add zero-mean Gaussian
noise to each objective with σ = 5% of the range of each objective. We run COMO-CMA-ES with 5
kernels, the same initial quasi-random design as the BO methods, a population size of 10, and an
initial step size of 0.2. As shown in Figure 17, the BO methods vastly outperform COMO-CMA-ES.
qNEHVI and qNParEGO perform best and are closely followed by qNEHVI-1.

                                                                                          SphereEllipsoidal
                                                                            8.40



                                               Log Hypervolume Difference
                                                                            8.20

                                                                            8.00

                                                                            7.80

                                                                            7.60

                                                                            7.40

                                                                            7.20


                                                                                    0    50      100    150     200
                                                                                         Function Evaluations

                                             COMO-CMA-ES                                             TS-TCH               qNEHVI-1
                                             Sobol                                                   qNEHVI               qNParEGO


Figure 17: Optimization performance on a 2-objective Sphere-Ellipsoidal problem (d = 5) with
σ = 5%.



H.10                 Importance of Accounting for Noise in DGEMO


               1
                            DGEMO-PM-NEHVI                                                                     DGEMO                              DGEMO-PM
               0

               -1

               -2
 Objective 2




               -3

               -4

               -5

               -6

               -7

               -8
                    -15   -10         -5   0                                       -15        -10         -5          0          -15   -10         -5    0
                            Objective 1                                                         Objective 1                              Objective 1


Figure 18: An illustration of the effect of noisy observations on the true noiseless Pareto frontiers
identified by DGEMO (right) DGEMO-PM-NEHVI (left, see Appendix H.10). Both algorithms
are tested on a BraninCurrin synthetic problem, where observations are corrupted with zero-mean,
additive Gaussian noise with a standard deviation of 5% of the range of respective objective. All
methods use sequential (q = 1) optimization.

   10
      COMO-CMA-ES is also the only multi-objective CMA-ES that we could find with an open-source Python
implementation. We use the implementation available at https://github.com/CMA-ES/pycomocma under
the BSD 3-clause license.


                                                                                                36
Similar to EHVI, DGEMO relies on the observed (noisy) Pareto frontier for batch selection. The right
plot in Figure 18 shows that DGEMO exhibits the same clumping behavior in objective space in the
noisy setting as EHVI. While DGEMO’s diversity constraints (with respect to the input parameters)
make it slightly more robust to noise, the solutions are clustered and the bottom right corner of the
Pareto frontier is not identified. In an attempt to mitigate these issues, we propose an augmented
version of DGEMO, which we call DGEMO-PM-NEHVI, as follows: (i) we use the posterior mean
at the previously evaluated points to estimate the in-sample Pareto frontier, which we hope will
improve robustness to noise when selecting a discrete set of potential candidates using the DGEMO’s
first-order approximation of the Pareto frontier, and (ii) we use qNEHVI rather than HVI under the
posterior mean as the batch selection criterion over the discrete set, subject to DGEMO’s diversity
constraints. We find that using qNEHVI to integrate over the uncertainty in the Pareto frontier over
the previously evaluated points, results in identifying higher quality Pareto frontiers as shown in
Figure 18. We also include DGEMO-PM, which uses (i) but not (ii) for completeness. Not only
does DGEMO-PM-NEHVI identify much more diverse solutions that provide better coverage across
the Pareto frontier, but DGEMO-PM-NEHVI also identifies much better solutions on the lower
right portion of the Pareto frontier than DGEMO and DGEMO-PM. DGEMO-PM performs much
better than DGEMO and is competitively with DGEMO-PM-NEHVI, which we speculate is because
DGEMO uses a first-order approximation of the Pareto frontier (using the observed values or using
the posterior mean for -PM variants) to generate a discrete set of candidates. Using the posterior mean
in this step is important for regularizing against extreme observed values due to noise. qNEHVI
is only used as a filtering criterion for batch selection over that discrete set of candidates, subject
to DGEMO’s diversity constraints. Hence, qNEHVI has limited control over the batch selection
procedure.
DGEMO’s first-order approximation fundamentally does not account for uncertainty in the Pareto
frontier over previously evaluated points. Although one could integrate over the uncertainty in
the in-sample Pareto frontier by generating a first-order approximation of the Pareto frontier under
different sample paths, the graph cut algorithm would yield different families under each sample path.
It is unclear how to set the diversity constraints in that setting. We leave this for future work.


I     Noisy Outcome Constraints

While the focus of this work is on developing a scalable parallel hypervolume-based acquisition
function for noisy settings, our MC-based approach naturally lends itself to support for constraints.

I.1   Derivation of Constrained NEHVI

The NEHVI formulation in (2) can be extended to handle noisy observations of outcome constraints.
We consider the scenario where we receive noisy observations of M objectives f (x) ∈ RM and V
              (v)       V                                                                   n
constraints
          c  ∈ R , allof which are assumed to be “black-box”: Dn = {xi , yi , bi }i=1 where
 yi             f (xi )
      ∼N                  , Σi , Σi ∈ R(M +V )×(M +V ) . We assume, without loss of generality, that
 bi             c(xi )
c(v) is feasible iff c(v) ≥ 0. In the constrained optimization setting, we aim to identify the a finite
approximate feasible Pareto set
            Pfeas = {f (x) | x ∈ Xn , c(x) ≥ 0, @ x0 : c(x0 ) ≥ 0 s.t. f (x0 )  f (x)}
of the true feasible Pareto set
                ∗
               Pfeas = {f (x) s.t. c(x) ≥ 0, @ x0 : c(x0 ) ≥ 0 s.t. f (x0 )  f (x)}.
The natural improvement measure in the constrained setting is feasible HVI, which we define for a
single candidate point x as
                    HVI C (f (x), c(x)|Pfeas ) := HVI[f (x)|Pfeas ] · 1[c(x) ≥ 0].
Taking the expectation over HVI C gives the constrained expected hypervolume improvement:
                                  Z
                     αEHVIC (x) = HVI C (f (x), c(x)|Pfeas )p(f , c|D)df dc               (19)


                                                  37
For brevity, we define Cn = c(Xn ), Fn = f (Xn ). The noisy expected hypervolume improvement is
then defined as:                    Z
                      αNEHVIC (x) =            αEHVI C (x|Pfeas )p(Fn , Cn |Dn )dFn dCn .                     (20)

Performing feasibility-weighting on the sample-level allows us to include such auxiliary outcome
constraints into the full Monte Carlo formulation given in (3) in a straightforward way:

                                     N Kt
                                             " M                       V
                                                                                             #
                                  1 XX
                                                                          1[ct (x) ≥ 0]
                                                 Y  (m)     (m) 
                                                                      Y      (v)
                α̂NEHVIc (x) =                       zk,t − lk,t +
                                 N t=1
                                        k=1 m=1                       v=1

where zk,t := min uk,t , f˜t (x) and lk,t , uk,t are the mth dimension of the lower and upper
         (m)           (m) (m)               (m)   (m)

vertices of the rectangle Sk,t in the non-dominated partitioning {S1,t , ..., SKt ,t } under the feasible
sampled Pareto frontier
      Pfeas,t = Pfeas = {f˜t (x) | x ∈ Xn , c̃t (x) ≥ 0, @ x0 : c̃t (x0 ) ≥ 0 s.t. f˜t (x0 )  f˜t (x)}.
In this formulation, the v=1 1[ct (x) ≥ 0] indicates feasibility of the t-th sample.
                         QV         (v)


To permit gradient-based optimization via exact sample-path gradients, we replace the indicator
function (which is non-differentiable) with a differentiable sigmoid approximation with a temperature
parameter τ , which becomes exact as τ → ∞:
                                                                     1
                     1[c(v) (x) ≥ 0] ≈ s(c(v) (x); τ ) :=                                        (21)
                                                           1 + exp(−c(v) (x)/τ )
Hence,                                      " M                                      #
                                    N Kt                             V
                                 1 XX          Y  (m)        (m) 
                                                                    Y      (v)
               α̂NEHVIc (x) ≈                        zk,t − lk,t +      s(ct (x), τ )
                                N t=1         m=1                   v=1
                                               k=1


I.2   Derivation of Parallel, Constrained NEHVI

The constrained NEHVI can be extended to the parallel setting in a straightforward fashion. The
joint constrained hypervolume improvement of a set of points {xi }qi=1 is given by
                                  q
                                K X
                                                   " M                             V
                                                                                                   #
                                                       Y  (m) (m)   Y Y
                                                                                      1[c (x ) ≥ 0] .
                        q
                                X    X
                                               j+1                                       (v)  0
HVI C ({f (xi ), c(xi )}i=1 ) =          (−1)                zk,Xj −lk +
                                  k=1 j=1 Xj ∈Xj                   m=1                        x0 ∈Xj v=1

and the constrained qEHVI is [11]:
                                           Z
            αqEHVIC (Xcand |Pfeas ) =          HVI C (f (Xcand ), c(Xcand )|Pfeas )p(f , c|Dn )df dc

Hence, the constrained qNEHVI is given by:
                             Z
          αqNEHVIc (Xcand ) = αqEHVIC (Xcand |Pfeas )p(Fn , Cn |Dn )dFn dCn
                             Z                                                                                (22)
                            = HVI C (f (Xcand ), c(Xcand )|Pfeas )p(Fn , Cn |Dn )dFn dCn

Using MC integration for the integral in (22), we have
                                                     N
                                               1 X
                   α̂qNEHVIc (Xcand ) =              HVIc (f˜t (Xcand ), c̃t (Xcand )|Pfeas,t ).              (23)
                                               N t=1
Under the CBD formulation, the constrained qNEHVI is given by
                                       N
                                 1 X
                                       HVI C {f˜t (xj ), c̃t (xj )}i−1
                                                                                   
  α̂qNEHVI ({x1 , ..., xi }) =                                     j=1 } | Pfeas,t
                                 N t=1
                                           N
                                       1 X
                                             HVI C f˜t (xi ), c̃t (xi ) | Pfeas,t ∪ {f˜t (xj ), c̃t (xj )}i−1
                                                                                                               
                                   +                                                                      j=1 } .
                                       N t=1
                                                                                                               (24)


                                                          38
As in (6), the first term is a constant when generating candidate i and the second term is the NEHVI
of xi .

J   Evaluating Methods on Noisy Benchmarks
Given noisy observations, we can no longer compute the true Pareto frontier over the in-sample points
Xn . Moreover, the subset of Pareto optimal designs Xn∗ = {x ∈ Xn , @ x0 ∈ Xn s.t. f (x0 )  f (x)}
from the previously evaluated points may not be identified due to noise. For the previous results
reported in this paper, we evaluate each method according to hypervolume dominated by the true
unknown Pareto frontier of the noiseless objectives over the in-sample points. In practice, decision-
makers would often select one of the in-sample points according to their preferences. If the decision
maker only has noisy observations, selecting an in-sample point may be preferable to evaluating a
new out-of-sample point according to the model’s beliefs. An alternative evaluation method would
be use the model’s posterior mean to identify what it believes is the Pareto optimal set of in-sample
designs. The hypervolume dominated by the true Pareto frontier of noiseless objectives over that set
of selected designs could be computed and used for comparing the performance of different methods.
Results using this procedure are shown in Figure 19. The quality of the Pareto set depends on the
model fit. Several methods have worse performance over time (e.g. qEHVI and qPAR EGO on
the ZDT1 problem), likely due to the collection of outlier observations that degrade the model fit.
Nevertheless, qNEHVI consistently has the strongest performance.
An alternative to the in-sample evaluation techniques described above would be to use the model to
identify the Pareto frontier across the entire search space (in-sample or out-of-sample). For example,
Hernández-Lobato et al. [25] used NSGA-II to optimize the model’s posterior mean and identify
the model estimated Pareto frontier. For benchmarking purposes on expensive-to-evaluate functions
(e.g. in AutoML or ABR), this is prohibitively expensive. Moreover, such a method is less appealing
in practice because a decision-maker would have to select out-of-sample points according to the
posterior mean and then evaluate a set of preferred designs on the noisy objective to verify that the
model predictions are fairly accurate at those out-of-sample designs. Therefore, in this work we
evaluate methods based on the in-sample designs.




                                                 39
                                                                      BraninCurrin                                                ZDT1                                              Adaptive Bitrate                                        VehicleSafety
                             1.80                                                                     0.00                                                       6.10                                                1.50

                                                                                                      -0.20                                                                                                          1.25
                             1.60                                                                                                                                6.00
Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                                                      -0.40                                                                                                          1.00
                             1.40
                                                                                                                                                                 5.90
                                                                                                      -0.60                                                                                                          0.75
                             1.20
                                                                                                      -0.80                                                      5.80                                                0.50
                             1.00
                                                                                                      -1.00                                                                                                          0.25
                                                                                                                                                                 5.70
                             0.80                                                                     -1.20                                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                                                                                                 5.60
                             0.60                                                                     -1.40                                                                                                          -0.25

                                                                                                      -1.60                                                      5.50                                                -0.50
                                    0   50     100     150                               200                  0           50     100     150      200                   0       50     100     150      200                  0      50     100     150      200
                                         Function Evaluations                                                              Function Evaluations                                  Function Evaluations                                Function Evaluations
                                                                             MESMO             PFES               Sobol             TS-TCH               qEHVI              qEHVI-PM               qNEHVI           qNParEGO                qParEGO


                                                                                                                                                           (a)

                                                                                           AutoML                                                       CarSideImpact                                       ConstrainedBraninCurrin

                                                                                                                                 2.40                                                       2.60
                                                                     0.25
                                        Log Hypervolume Difference




                                                                     0.20                                                                                                                   2.40
                                                                                                                                 2.20

                                                                     0.15                                                                                                                   2.20
                                                                                                                                 2.00
                                                                     0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00
                                                                                                                                 1.80
                                                                     0.05
                                                                                                                                                                                            1.80
                                                                     0.00                                                        1.60
                                                                                                                                                                                            1.60
                                                                     -0.05
                                                                                                                                 1.40
                                                                                                                                                                                            1.40
                                                                             0       50     100     150       200                        0        50     100     150          200                   0       50     100     150        200
                                                                                      Function Evaluations                                         Function Evaluations                                      Function Evaluations


                                                                             qNEHVI             qParEGO                     qNParEGO                TS-TCH                  qEHVI            qEHVI-PM               MESMO                   PFES


                                                                                                                                                          (b)

Figure 19: Sequential optimization performance using based on the model-identified Pareto set across
in-sample points.




                                                                                                                                                          40
